DRUG NAME: LACOSAMIDE
GENERIC NAME: LACOSAMIDE
MANUFACTURER: Somerset Therapeutics, LLC
ROUTE: INTRAVENOUS

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name of lacosamide, the single (R)-enantiomer, is (R)-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3- methoxypropionamide (IUPAC). Lacosamide is a functionalized amino acid. Its molecular formula is C 13 H 18 N 2 O 3 and its molecular weight is 250.30. The chemical structure is: Lacosamide is a white to light yellow powder. It is sparingly soluble in water and slightly soluble in acetonitrile and ethanol. 11.2 Lacosamide Injection Lacosamide injection, USP is a clear, colorless, sterile solution containing 10 mg lacosamide per mL for intravenous infusion. One 20-mL vial contains 200 mg of lacosamide drug substance. The inactive ingredients are sodium chloride (7.62 mg/mL) and water for injection. Hydrochloric acid is used for pH adjustment. Lacosamide injection, USP has a pH of 3.8 to 5.0. Image

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effects in humans remains to be fully elucidated. In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable neuronal membranes and inhibition of repetitive neuronal firing. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics A pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (efficacy) analysis was performed based on the pooled data from the 3 efficacy trials for partial-onset seizures. Lacosamide exposure is correlated with the reduction in seizure frequency. However, doses above 400 mg/day do not appear to confer additional benefit in group analyses. Cardiac Electrophysiology Electrocardiographic effects of lacosamide were determined in a double-blind, randomized clinical pharmacology trial of 247 healthy subjects. Chronic oral doses of 400 and 800 mg/day (equal to and two times the maximum daily recommended dose, respectively) were compared with placebo and a positive control (400 mg moxifloxacin). Lacosamide did not prolong QTc interval and did not have a dose-related or clinically important effect on QRS duration. Lacosamide produced a small, dose-related increase in mean PR interval. At steady-state, the time of the maximum observed mean PR interval corresponded with tmax. The placebo-subtracted maximum increase in PR interval (at tmax) was 7.3 ms for the 400 mg/day group and 11.9 ms for the 800 mg/day group. For patients who participated in the controlled trials, the placebo-subtracted mean maximum increase in PR interval for a 400 mg/day lacosamide dose was 3.1 ms in patients with partial-onset seizures and 9.4 ms for patients with diabetic neuropathy. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide have been studied in healthy adult subjects (age range 18 to 87), adults with partial-onset seizures, adults with diabetic neuropathy, and subjects with renal and hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide are similar in healthy subjects, patients with partial-onset seizures, and patients with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Lacosamide is completely absorbed after oral administration with negligible first-pass effect with a high absolute bioavailability of approximately 100%. The maximum lacosamide plasma concentrations occur approximately 1-to-4-hour post-dose after oral dosing, and elimination half-life is approximately 13 hours. Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after 3 days of twice daily repeated administration. Pharmacokinetics of lacosamide are dose proportional (100-800 mg) and time invariant, with low inter- and intra-subject variability. Compared to lacosamide the major metabolite, O-desmethyl metabolite, has a longer Tmax (0.5 to 12 hours) and elimination half-life (15-23 hours). Absorption and Bioavailability Lacosamide is completely absorbed after oral administration. The oral bioavailability of lacosamide tablets is approximately 100%. Food does not affect the rate and extent of absorption. After intravenous administration, C max is reached at the end of infusion. The 30- and 60-minute intravenous infusions are bioequivalent to the oral tablet. For the 15-minute intravenous infusion, bioequivalence was met for AUC (0-tz) but not for C max . The point estimate of C max was 20% higher than C max for oral tablet and the 90% CI for C max exceeded the upper boundary of the bioequivalence range. In a trial comparing the oral tablet with an oral solution containing 10 mg/mL lacosamide, bioequivalence between both formulations was shown. A single loading dose of 200 mg approximates steady-state concentrations comparable to the 100 mg twice daily oral administration. Distribution The volume of distribution is approximately 0.6 L/kg and thus close to the volume of total body water. Lacosamide is less than 15% bound to plasma proteins. Metabolism and Elimination Lacosamide is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and biotransformation. After intravenous administration of 100 mg [14C]-lacosamide approximately 95% of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0.5% in the feces. The major compounds excreted were unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40% of the dose), its O-desmethyl metabolite (approximately 30%), and a structurally unknown polar fraction (~20%). The plasma exposure of the major human metabolite, O- desmethyl-lacosamide, is approximately 10% of that of lacosamide. This metabolite has no known pharmacological activity. The CYP isoforms mainly responsible for the formation of the major metabolite (O-desmethyl) are CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. The elimination half-life of the unchanged drug is approximately 13 hours and is not altered by different doses, multiple dosing or intravenous administration. There is no enantiomeric interconversion of lacosamide. Specific Populations Renal Impairment Lacosamide and its major metabolite are eliminated from the systemic circulation primarily by renal excretion. The AUC of lacosamide was increased approximately 25% in mildly (CL CR 50-80 mL/min) and moderately (CL CR 30-50 mL/min) and 60% in severely (CL CR ≤30 mL/min) renally impaired patients compared to subjects with normal renal function (CL CR >80 mL/min), whereas C max was unaffected. Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Following a 4-hour hemodialysis treatment, AUC of lacosamide is reduced by approximately 50% [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . Hepatic Impairment Lacosamide undergoes metabolism. Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) showed higher plasma concentrations of lacosamide (approximately 50-60% higher AUC compared to healthy subjects). The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide have not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . Pediatric Patients (4 Years to less than 17 Years of Age) The pediatric pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in two open-label studies in 79 pediatric patients with partial-onset seizures that included patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age. A weight based dosing regimen is necessary to achieve lacosamide exposures in pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age similar to those observed in adults treated at effective doses of lacosamide [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. For patients weighing 11 kg, 28.9 kg (the mean population body weight), and 70 kg, the typical plasma half-life (t1/2) is 7.4 hours, 10.6 hours, and 14.8 hours, respectively. Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after 3 days of twice daily repeated administration. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide in pediatric patients are similar when used as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures and as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Geriatric Patients In the elderly (>65 years), dose and body-weight normalized AUC and C max is about 20% increased compared to young subjects (18-64 years). This may be related to body weight and decreased renal function in elderly subjects. Gender Lacosamide clinical trials indicate that gender does not have a clinically relevant influence on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide. Race There are no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide between Asian, Black, and Caucasian subjects. CYP2C19 Polymorphism There are no clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide between CYP2C19 poor metabolizers and extensive metabolizers. Results from a trial in poor metabolizers (PM) (N=4) and extensive metabolizers (EM) (N=8) of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 showed that lacosamide plasma concentrations were similar in PMs and EMs, but plasma concentrations and the amount excreted into urine of the O-desmethyl metabolite were about 70% reduced in PMs compared to EMs. Drug Interactions In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions In vitro metabolism studies indicate that lacosamide does not induce the enzyme activity of drug metabolizing cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19 and 3A4. Lacosamide did not inhibit CYP 1A1, 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5 at plasma concentrations observed in clinical studies. In vitro data suggest that lacosamide has the potential to inhibit CYP2C19 at therapeutic concentrations. However, an in vivo study with omeprazole did not show an inhibitory effect on omeprazole pharmacokinetics. Lacosamide was not a substrate or inhibitor for P-glycoprotein. Lacosamide is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 may have increased exposure to lacosamide. Since <15% of lacosamide is bound to plasma proteins, a clinically relevant interaction with other drugs through competition for protein binding sites is unlikely. In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug interaction studies with AEDs ○ Effect of lacosamide on concomitant AEDs Lacosamide 400 mg/day had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of 600 mg/day valproic acid and 400 mg/day carbamazepine in healthy subjects. The placebo-controlled clinical studies in patients with partial-onset seizures showed that steady-state plasma concentrations of levetiracetam, carbamazepine, carbamazepine epoxide, lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine monohydroxy derivative (MHD), phenytoin, valproic acid, phenobarbital, gabapentin, clonazepam, and zonisamide were not affected by concomitant intake of lacosamide at any dose. ○ Effect of concomitant AEDs on lacosamide Drug-drug interaction studies in healthy subjects showed that 600 mg/day valproic acid had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of 400 mg/day lacosamide. Likewise, 400 mg/day carbamazepine had no influence on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide in a healthy subject study. Population pharmacokinetics results in patients with partial-onset seizures showed small reductions (15% to 20% lower) in lacosamide plasma concentrations when lacosamide was coadministered with carbamazepine, phenobarbital or phenytoin. Drug-drug interaction studies with other drugs ○ Digoxin There was no effect of lacosamide (400 mg/day) on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin (0.5 mg once daily) in a study in healthy subjects. ○ Metformin There were no clinically relevant changes in metformin levels following coadministration of lacosamide (400 mg/day). Metformin (500 mg three times a day) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide (400 mg/day). ○ Omeprazole Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and inhibitor. There was no effect of lacosamide (600 mg/day) on the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (40 mg single dose) in healthy subjects. The data indicated that lacosamide had little in vivo inhibitory or inducing effect on CYP2C19. Omeprazole at a dose of 40 mg once daily had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lacosamide(300 mg single dose). However, plasma levels of the O-desmethyl metabolite were reduced about 60% in the presence of omeprazole. ○ Midazolam Midazolam is a 3A4 substrate. There was no effect of lacosamide (200 mg single dose or repeat doses of 400 mg/day given as 200 mg BID) on the pharmacokinetics of midazolam (single dose, 7.5 mg), indicating no inhibitory or inducing effects on CYP3A4. ○ Oral Contraceptives There was no influence of lacosamide (400 mg/day) on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive containing 0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel in healthy subjects, except that a 20% increase in ethinylestradiol C max was observed. ○ Warfarin Co-administration of lacosamide (400 mg/day) with warfarin (25 mg single dose) did not result in a clinically relevant change in the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin in a study in healthy male subjects.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effects in humans remains to be fully elucidated. In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable neuronal membranes and inhibition of repetitive neuronal firing.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide injection is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.2) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None . None (4)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily (2.1) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily (2.1) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily (2.1) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily (2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week (2.1) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients (2.7, 5.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment (2.4, 12.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. In pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age, the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight. Dosage should be increased based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week. Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 years of age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Oral and intravenous dosages are the same unless specified. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Lacosamide Injection Dosage L acosamide injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. L acosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult and pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. For pediatric patients weighing less than 6 kg, L acosamide injection may be initiated with a dose of 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (see Table 1). The clinical study experience of intravenous L acosamide is limited to 5 days of consecutive treatment. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). The alternate initial dosage regimen should be continued for one week. Lacosamide injection may then be titrated based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week, if needed. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3), Adverse Reactions (6.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 2. Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated* Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Oral and intravenous dosages are the same unless specified. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. A gradual withdrawal of the concomitant AED over at least 6 weeks is recommended. 2.4 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, no dosage adjustment is necessary. For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CL CR ) less than 30 mL/min as estimated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation for adults; CL CR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients] or end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. In all patients with renal impairment, dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability. Hemodialysis Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Following a 4-hour hemodialysis treatment, dosage supplementation of up to 50% should be considered. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.5 Dosage Information for Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. The dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability in patients with hepatic impairment. Lacosamide use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.7 Preparation and Administration Information for Lacosamide Injection Preparation Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously without further dilution or may be mixed with diluents listed below. The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. Diluents: Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% (w/v) Dextrose Injection 5% (w/v) Lactated Ringer's Injection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. Lacosamide injection is for single-dose only. Any unused portion of lacosamide injection should be discarded. Administration The recommended infusion duration is 30 to 60 minutes; however, infusions as rapid as 15 minutes can be administered in adults if required [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Infusion durations less than 30 minutes are generally not recommended in pediatric patients [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Intravenous infusion of lacosamide may cause bradycardia, AV blocks, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . Storage and Stability The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. Any unused portion of lacosamide injection should be discarded. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: Suicidal Behavior and Ideation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Dizziness and Ataxia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Adjunctive therapy: Most common adverse reactions in adults (≥10% and greater than placebo) are diplopia, headache, dizziness, nausea, and somnolence (6.1) Monotherapy: Most common adverse reactions are similar to those seen in adjunctive therapy studies (6.1) Pediatric patients: Adverse reactions are similar to those seen in adult patients (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Somerset Therapeutics, LLC at 1- 800-417-9175 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Laboratory Abnormalities Abnormalities in liver function tests have occurred in controlled trials with lacosamide in adult patients with partial-onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant anti-epileptic drugs. Elevations of ALT to ≥3x ULN occurred in 0.7% (7/935) of lacosamide patients and 0% (0/356) of placebo patients. One case of hepatitis with transaminases >20x ULN occurred in one healthy subject 10 days after lacosamide treatment completion, along with nephritis (proteinuria and urine casts). Serologic studies were negative for viral hepatitis. Transaminases returned to normal within one month without specific treatment. At the time of this event, bilirubin was normal. The hepatitis/nephritis was interpreted as a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to lacosamide. Other Adverse Reactions The following is a list of adverse reactions reported by patients treated with lacosamide in all clinical trials in adult patients, including controlled trials and long-term open-label extension trials. Adverse reactions addressed in other tables or sections are not listed here. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: neutropenia, anemia Cardiac disorders: palpitations Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, dyspepsia, dry mouth, oral hypoaesthesia General disorders and administration site conditions: irritability, pyrexia, feeling drunk Injury, poisoning, and procedural complications: fall Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle spasms Nervous system disorders: paresthesia, cognitive disorder, hypoaesthesia, dysarthria, disturbance in attention, cerebellar syndrome Psychiatric disorders: confusional state, mood altered, depressed mood Lacosamide Injection Adult Patients (17 Years and Older) Adverse reactions with intravenous administration to adult patients with partial-onset seizures generally were similar to those that occurred with the oral formulation, although intravenous administration was associated with local adverse reactions such as injection site pain or discomfort (2.5%), irritation (1%), and erythema (0.5%). One case of profound bradycardia (26 bpm: BP 100/60 mmHg) occurred in a patient during a 15-minute infusion of 150 mg lacosamide. This patient was on a beta-blocker. Infusion was discontinued and the patient experienced a rapid recovery. The safety of a 15-minute loading dose administration of lacosamide Injection 200 mg to 400 mg followed by oral administration of lacosamide given twice daily at the same total daily dose as the initial intravenous infusion was assessed in an open-label study in adult patients with partial-onset seizures. Patients had to have been maintained on a stable dose regimen of 1 to 2 marketed antiepileptics for at least 28 days prior to treatment assignment. Treatment groups were as follows: Single dose of intravenous lacosamide Injection 200 mg followed by oral lacosamide 200 mg/day (100 mg every 12 hours) Single dose of intravenous lacosamide Injection 300 mg followed by oral lacosamide 300 mg/day (150 mg every 12 hours) Single dose of intravenous lacosamide Injection 400 mg followed by oral lacosamide 400 mg/day (200 mg every 12 hours). Table 5 gives the incidence of adverse reactions that occurred in ≥5% of adult patients in any lacosamide dosing group. Table 5: Adverse Reactions in a 15-minute Infusion Study in Adult Patients with Partial-Onset Seizures Adverse Reaction Lacosamide 200 mg N=25 % Lacosamide 300 mg N=50 % Lacosamide 400 mg N=25 % Lacosamide Total N=100 % Eye disorders Diplopia 4 6 20 9 Blurred Vision 0 4 12 5 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 0 16 24 14 Dry mouth 0 6 12 6 Vomiting 0 4 12 5 Oral Paresthesia 4 4 8 5 Oral Hypoesthesia 0 6 8 5 Diarrhea 0 8 0 4 General disorders/ administration site conditions Fatigue 0 18 12 12 Gait disturbance 8 2 0 3 Chest pain 0 0 12 3 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 20 46 60 43 Somnolence 0 34 36 26 Headache 8 4 16 8 Paresthesia 8 6 4 6 Tremor 0 6 4 4 Abnormal Coordination 0 6 0 3 Skin & subcutaneous tissue disorders Pruritus 0 6 4 4 Hyperhidrosis 0 0 8 2 Adverse reactions that occurred with infusion of lacosamide 200 mg over 15-minutes followed by lacosamide 100 mg administered orally twice per day were similar in frequency to those that occurred in 3-month adjunctive therapy controlled trials. Considering the difference in period of observations (1 week vs. 3 months), the incidence of CNS adverse reactions, such as dizziness, somnolence, and paresthesia may be higher with 15- minute administration of lacosamide Injection than with administration over a 30-to 60-minute period. The adverse reactions associated with lacosamide injection in adult patients with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures are expected to be similar to those seen in adults with partial-onset seizures. Pediatric Patients (4 years to less than 17 Years of Age) The safety of lacosamide injection was evaluated in a multicenter, open-label study of 77 pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age with epilepsy. Infusions were primarily administered over a 30 to 60 minute time period; infusion times less than 30 minutes were not adequately studied in pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)] . Although no serious or severe adverse reactions were noted at the time of infusion in this small study, the adverse reactions associated with lacosamide injection in pediatric patients are expected to be similar to those noted in adults. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of lacosamide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Agranulocytosis Psychiatric disorders: Aggression, agitation, hallucination, insomnia, psychotic disorder Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Angioedema, rash, urticaria, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Neurologic disorders: Dyskinesia, new or worsening seizures

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 may have a significant increase in exposure to lacosamide. Dose reduction may be necessary in these patients. 7.2 Concomitant Medications that Affect Cardiac Conduction Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction (sodium channel blockers, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, potassium channel blockers) including those that prolong PR interval (including sodium channel blocking AEDs), because of a risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. In such patients, obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide, and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state, is recommended. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] .

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), such as lacosamide, during pregnancy. Encourage women who are taking lacosamide during pregnancy to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) pregnancy registry by calling 1-888- 233-2334 or visiting http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. Risk Summary Available data from the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) pregnancy registry, a prospective cohort study, case reports, and a case series with lacosamide use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes . Lacosamide produced developmental toxicity (increased embryofetal and perinatal mortality, growth deficit) in rats following administration during pregnancy. Developmental neurotoxicity was observed in rats following administration during a period of postnatal development corresponding to the third trimester of human pregnancy. These effects were observed at doses associated with clinically relevant plasma exposures (see Data) . The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2-4% and 15-20%, respectively. Data Animal Data Oral administration of lacosamide to pregnant rats (20, 75, or 200 mg/kg/day) and rabbits (6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg/kg/day) during the period of organogenesis did not produce any effects on the incidences of fetal structural abnormalities. However, the maximum doses evaluated were limited by maternal toxicity in both species and embryofetal death in rats. These doses were associated with maternal plasma lacosamide exposures (AUC) approximately 2 and 1 times (rat and rabbit, respectively) that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 400 mg/day. In two studies in which lacosamide (25, 70, or 200 mg/kg/day and 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg/day) was orally administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation, increased perinatal mortality and decreased body weights in the offspring were observed at the highest dose tested. The no-effect dose for pre- and postnatal developmental toxicity in rats (70 mg/kg/day) was associated with a maternal plasma lacosamide AUC similar to that in humans at the MRHD. Oral administration of lacosamide (30, 90, or 180 mg/kg/day) to rats during the neonatal and juvenile periods of development resulted in decreased brain weights and long-term neurobehavioral changes (altered open field performance, deficits in learning and memory). The early postnatal period in rats is generally thought to correspond to late pregnancy in humans in terms of brain development. The no-effect dose for developmental neurotoxicity in rats was associated with a plasma lacosamide AUC less than that in humans at the MRHD. In Vitro Data Lacosamide has been shown in vitro to interfere with the activity of collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2), a protein involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal outgrowth. Potential adverse effects on CNS development related to this activity cannot be ruled out.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Partial-Onset Seizures Safety and effectiveness of lacosamide for the treatment of partial-onset seizures have been established in pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age. Use of lacosamide in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of lacosamide in adults with partial-onset seizures, pharmacokinetic data from adult and pediatric patients, and safety data in 328 pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below 1 month of age have not been established. Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Safety and effectiveness of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in pediatric patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy 4 years of age and older was established in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center study (Study 5), which included 37 pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.3)] . Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 4 years have not been established. Animal Data Lacosamide has been shown in vitro to interfere with the activity of collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2), a protein involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal outgrowth. Potential related adverse effects on CNS development cannot be ruled out. Administration of lacosamide to rats during the neonatal and juvenile periods of postnatal development (approximately equivalent to neonatal through adolescent development in humans) resulted in decreased brain weights and long-term neurobehavioral changes (altered open field performance, deficits in learning and memory). The no-effect dose for developmental neurotoxicity in rats was associated with a plasma lacosamide exposure (AUC) less than that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose of 400 mg/day. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use There were insufficient numbers of elderly patients enrolled in partial-onset seizure trials (n=18) to adequately determine whether they respond differently from younger patients. No lacosamide dose adjustment based on age is necessary. In elderly patients, dose titration should be performed with caution, usually starting at the lower end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic function, decreased renal function, increased cardiac conduction abnormalities, and polypharmacy [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.4, 2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Events reported after an intake of more than 800 mg (twice the maximum recommended daily dosage) of lacosamide include dizziness, nausea, and seizures (generalized tonic-clonic seizures, status epilepticus). Cardiac conduction disorders, confusion, decreased level of consciousness, cardiogenic shock, cardiac arrest, and coma have also been observed. Fatalities have occurred following lacosamide overdoses of several grams. There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide. Standard decontamination procedures should be followed. General supportive care of the patient is indicated including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the clinical status of patient. A Certified Poison Control Center should be contacted for up to date information on the management of overdose with lacosamide. Standard hemodialysis procedures result in significant clearance of lacosamide (reduction of systemic exposure by 50% in 4 hours). Hemodialysis may be indicated based on the patient's clinical state or in patients with significant renal impairment.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Monotherapy in Patients with Partial-Onset Seizures The efficacy of lacosamide in monotherapy was established in a historical-control, multicenter, randomized trial that included 425 patients, age 16 to 70 years, with partial-onset seizures (Study 1). To be included in Study 1, patients were required to be taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic drugs. This treatment continued into the 8 week baseline period. To remain in the study, patients were required to have at least 2 partial-onset seizures per 28 days during the 8 week baseline period. The baseline period was followed by a 3 week titration period, during which lacosamide was added to the ongoing antiepileptic regimen. This was followed by a 16- week maintenance period (i.e., a 6-week withdrawal period for background antiepileptic drugs, followed by a 10-week monotherapy period). Patients were randomized 3 to 1 to receive lacosamide 400 mg/day or lacosamide 300 mg/day. Treatment assignments were blinded. Response to treatment was based upon a comparison of the number of patients who met exit criteria during the maintenance phase, compared to historical controls. The historical control consisted of a pooled analysis of the control groups from 8 studies of similar design, which utilized a sub-therapeutic dose of an antiepileptic drug. Statistical superiority to the historical control was considered to be demonstrated if the upper limit from a 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the percentage of patients meeting exit criteria in patients receiving lacosamide remained below the lower 95% prediction limit of 65% derived from the historical control data. The exit criteria were one or more of the following: (1) doubling of average monthly seizure frequency during any 28 consecutive days, (2) doubling of highest consecutive 2-day seizure frequency, (3) occurrence of a single generalized tonic-clonic seizure, (4) clinically significant prolongation or worsening of overall seizure duration, frequency, type or pattern considered by the investigator to require trial discontinuation, (5) status epilepticus or new onset of serial/cluster seizures. The study population profile appeared comparable to that of the historical control population. For the lacosamide 400 mg/day group, the estimate of the percentage of patients meeting at least 1 exit criterion was 30% (95% CI: 25%, 36%). The upper limit of the 2-sided 95% CI (36%) was below the threshold of 65% derived from the historical control data, meeting the pre-specified criteria for efficacy. Lacosamide 300 mg/day also met the pre-specified criteria for efficacy. 14.2 Adjunctive Therapy in Patients with Partial-Onset Seizures The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in partial-onset seizures was established in three 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trials in adult patients (Study 2, Study 3, and Study 4). Enrolled patients had partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalization, and were not adequately controlled with 1 to 3 concomitant AEDs. During an 8-week baseline period, patients were required to have an average of ≥4 partial-onset seizures per 28 days with no seizure-free period exceeding 21 days. In these 3 trials, patients had a mean duration of epilepsy of 24 years and a median baseline seizure frequency ranging from 10 to 17 per 28 days. 84% of patients were taking 2 to 3 concomitant AEDs with or without concurrent vagal nerve stimulation. Study 2 compared doses of lacosamide 200, 400, and 600 mg/day with placebo. Study 3 compared doses of lacosamide 400 and 600 mg/day with placebo. Study 4 compared doses of lacosamide 200 and 400 mg/day with placebo. In all three trials, following an 8-week baseline phase to establish baseline seizure frequency prior to randomization, patients were randomized and titrated to the randomized dose (a 1-step back-titration of lacosamide 100 mg/day or placebo was allowed in the case of intolerable adverse reactions at the end of the titration phase). During the titration phase, in all 3 adjunctive therapy trials, treatment was initiated at 100 mg/day (50 mg twice daily) and increased in weekly increments of 100 mg/day to the target dose. The titration phase lasted 6 weeks in Study 2 and Study 3, and 4 weeks in Study 4. In all three trials, the titration phase was followed by a maintenance phase that lasted 12 weeks, during which patients were to remain on a stable dose of lacosamide. A reduction in 28-day seizure frequency (baseline to maintenance phase), as compared to the placebo group, was the primary variable in all three adjunctive therapy trials. A statistically significant effect was observed with lacosamide treatment (Figure 1) at doses of 200 mg/day (Study 4), 400 mg/day (Studies 2, 3, and 4), and 600 mg/day (Studies 2 and 3). Subset evaluations of lacosamide demonstrate no important differences in seizure control as a function of gender or race, although data on race was limited (about 10% of patients were non-Caucasian). Figure 2 presents the percentage of patients (X-axis) with a percent reduction in partial seizure frequency (responder rate) from baseline to the maintenance phase at least as great as that represented on the Y-axis. A positive value on the Y-axis indicates an improvement from baseline (i.e., a decrease in seizure frequency), while a negative value indicates a worsening from baseline (i.e., an increase in seizure frequency). Thus, in a display of this type, a curve for an effective treatment is shifted to the left of the curve for placebo. The proportion of patients achieving any particular level of reduction in seizure frequency was consistently higher for the lacosamide groups, compared to the placebo group. For example, 40% of patients randomized to lacosamide (400 mg/day) experienced a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency, compared to 23% of patients randomized to placebo. Patients with an increase in seizure frequency >100% are represented on the Y-axis as equal to or greater than -100%. 14.3 Adjunctive Therapy in Patients with Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures was established in a 24-week double- blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center study (Study 5). The study consisted of a 12-week historical baseline period, a 4-week prospective baseline period, and a 24-week treatment period (which included a 6-week titration period and an 18-week maintenance period). Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptic drugs experiencing at least 3 documented PGTC seizures during the 16-week combined baseline period were randomized 1:1 to receive lacosamide (n=121) or placebo (n=121). Patients were dosed on a fixed-dose regimen. Dosing was initiated at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in patients weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in patients weighing 50 kg or more in 2 divided doses. During the titration period, lacosamide doses were adjusted in 2 mg/kg/day increments in patients weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in patients weighing 50 kg or more at weekly intervals to achieve the target maintenance period dose of 12 mg/kg/day in patients weighing less than 30 kg, 8 mg/kg/day in patients weighing from 30 to less than 50 kg, or 400 mg/day in patients weighing 50 kg or more. The primary efficacy endpoint (patients in the modified full analysis set: lacosamide n=118, placebo n=121) was the time to second PGTC seizure during the 24-week treatment period (Figure 3). The risk of developing a second PGTC seizure was statistically significantly lower in lacosamide group than in the placebo group during the 24-week treatment period (hazard ratio=0.548, 95% CI of hazard ratio: 0.381, 0.788, p-value = 0.001), with the corresponding risk reduction being 45.2%. The key secondary efficacy endpoint was the percentage of patients not experiencing a PGTC seizure during the 24-week treatment period. The adjusted Kaplan-Meier estimates of 24-week freedom from PGTC seizures were 31.3% in lacosamide group and 17.2% in placebo group. The adjusted difference between treatment groups was 14.1% (95% CI: 3.2, 25.1, p-value=0.011). Figure 3 – Kaplan-Meier Analysis of Time to 2nd PGTC Seizure (Study 5) Analysis Set: Modified Full Analysis Set The numbers at the bottom of the figure are for patients still at risk in the study at a given timepoint (i.e., the continuing patients in the study without an event or censoring prior to the timepoint). Image Image Image

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature] Do not freeze lacosamide injection. Discard unused portion.

SPL TEXT:
LACOSAMIDE LACOSAMIDE LACOSAMIDE LACOSAMIDE SODIUM CHLORIDE WATER HYDROCHLORIC ACID clear, colorless solution