DRUG NAME: Mesalamine
GENERIC NAME: MESALAMINE
MANUFACTURER: Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Each mesalamine delayed-release tablet, USP for oral administration contains 800 mg of mesalamine, USP, an aminosalicylate. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets, USP have an outer protective coat consisting of a combination of acrylic based resins, methacrylic acid copolymer type A and methacrylic acid copolymer type B. The inner coat consists of an acrylic based resin, Eudragit S, which dissolves at pH 7 or greater, releasing mesalamine, USP in the terminal ileum and beyond for topical anti-inflammatory action in the colon. Mesalamine, USP (also referred to as 5-aminosalicylic acid or 5-ASA) has the chemical name 5-amino-2-hydroxybenzoic acid; its structural formula is: Inactive Ingredients: Each tablet contains colloidal silicon dioxide, dibutyl sebacate, hypromellose, iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, methacrylic acid copolymer type A, methacrylic acid copolymer type B, polyethylene glycol, povidone, sodium starch glycolate, and talc. The black imprinting ink contains the following ingredients: ammonium hydroxide, iron oxide black, propylene glycol and shellac glaze. Structural formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mesalamine is not fully understood, but appears to be a topical anti-inflammatory effect on colonic epithelial cells. Mucosal production of arachidonic acid metabolites, both through the cyclooxygenase pathways, that is, prostanoids, and through the lipoxygenase pathways, that is, leukotrienes and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids, is increased in patients with ulcerative colitis, and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin production in the colon. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Plasma concentrations of mesalamine (5-aminosalicylic acid; 5-ASA) and its metabolite, N-acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid (N-Ac-5-ASA) are highly variable following administration of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. Following single dose oral administration of mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet in healthy subjects (N = 139) under fasted conditions, the mean C max , AUC 8-48h and AUC 0-tldc values were 208 ng/mL, 2,296 ng.h/mL, and 2533 ng.h/mL, respectively. The median [range] T max for mesalamine following administration of mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet was approximately 24 hours [4 hours to 72 hours], reflecting the delayed-release characteristics of the formulation. Based on cumulative urinary recovery of mesalamine and N-Ac-5-ASA from single dose studies in healthy subjects, approximately 20% of the orally administered mesalamine in mesalamine delayed-release tablets is systemically absorbed. Food Effect: A high calorie (800 to 1,000 calories), high fat (approximately 50 % of total caloric content) meal increased mesalamine C max by 2.4-fold and mesalamine systemic exposure (AUC 8-48 and AUC 0-tldc ) by 2.8-fold; the median lag-time increased by 8 hours and median t max by 6 hours (from 24 hours to 30 hours) [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Comparative exposure between one mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet and two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products is unknown [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Elimination Metabolism The absorbed mesalamine is acetylated in the gut mucosal wall and by the liver to N-Ac-5-ASA. Excretion Absorbed mesalamine is excreted mainly by the kidneys as N-acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid. Unabsorbed mesalamine is excreted in feces.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mesalamine is not fully understood, but appears to be a topical anti-inflammatory effect on colonic epithelial cells. Mucosal production of arachidonic acid metabolites, both through the cyclooxygenase pathways, that is, prostanoids, and through the lipoxygenase pathways, that is, leukotrienes and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids, is increased in patients with ulcerative colitis, and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin production in the colon.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults. Limitations of Use : Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are an aminosalicylate indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults. (1) Limitation of Use : Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , and Description (11) ] . Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets (4, 5.3)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions : Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release tablets 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products. (2.1) Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. (2.1, 5.1) Take on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal. (2.1) Swallow whole; do not cut, break or chew the tablets. (2.1) Drink an adequate amount of fluids. (2.1, 5.7) Treatment of Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis : Recommended dosage is 1,600 mg (two 800 mg tablets) three times daily for 6 weeks. (2.2) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. Take mesalamine delayed-release tablets on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole. Do not cut, break or chew the tablets. Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Intact, partially intact, and/or tablet shells have been reported in the stool; Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider if this occurs repeatedly. Protect mesalamine delayed-release tablets from moisture. 2.2 Dosage Information For the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis, the recommended dosage of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in adults is 1,600 mg (two 800 mg tablets) three times daily (total daily dosage of 4.8 grams) for a duration of 6 weeks.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious or clinically significant adverse reactions described elsewhere in labeling are: Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Hepatic Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Photosensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] The most common adverse reactions (≥2%) are headache, nausea, nasopharyngitis, abdominal pain, and worsening of ulcerative colitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-835-5472 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablets have been evaluated in 896 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled studies. Three six-week, active-controlled studies were conducted comparing mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablets 4.8 grams per day with mesalamine delayed-release tablets 400 mg 2.4 grams per day in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. In these studies, 727 patients were dosed with mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablets and 732 patients were dosed with mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets. The most common reactions reported in the mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet group were headache (4.7%), nausea (2.8%), nasopharyngitis (2.5%), abdominal pain (2.3%), diarrhea (1.7%), and dyspepsia (1.7%); Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in the three studies. The most common reactions in patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis (602 patients dosed with mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg and 618 patients dosed with mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg) were the same as all treated patients. Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 3.9% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet group and in 4.2% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablet comparator group. The most common cause for discontinuation was gastrointestinal symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 0.8% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet group and in 1.8% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release tablet comparator group. The majority involved the gastrointestinal system. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥1% of All Treated Patients (Three studies combined) Adverse Reaction Mesalamine delayed-release 2.4 grams per day (400 mg Tablet) (N = 732) Mesalamine delayed-release 4.8 grams per day (800 mg Tablet) (N = 727) Headache 4.9 % 4.7 % Nausea 2.9 % 2.8 % Nasopharyngitis 1.4 % 2.5 % Abdominal pain 2.3 % 2.3 % Diarrhea 1.9 % 1.7 % Dyspepsia 0.8 % 1.7 % Vomiting 1.6 % 1.4 % Flatulence 0.7 % 1.2 % Influenza 1.2 % 1.0 % Pyrexia 1.2 % 0.7 % Cough 1.4 % 0.3 % N = number of patients within specified treatment group Percent = percentage of patients in category and treatment group 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of mesalamine delayed-release or other mesalamine-containing products or products that are metabolized to mesalamine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole : Facial edema, edema, peripheral edema, asthenia, chills, infection, malaise, pain, neck pain, chest pain, back pain, abdominal enlargement, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever (rare). Cardiovascular : Pericarditis (rare) and myocarditis (rare) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] , pericardial effusion, vasodilation, migraine. Endocrine : Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Gastrointestinal : Dry mouth, stomatitis, oral ulcers, anorexia, increased appetite, eructation, pancreatitis, cholecystitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, perforated peptic ulcer (rare), constipation, hemorrhoids, rectal hemorrhage, bloody diarrhea, tenesmus, stool abnormality. Hepatic : There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity, including jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome, that included changes in liver enzymes, was also reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Hematologic : Agranulocytosis (rare), aplastic anemia (rare), anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal : Gout, rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis, arthralgia, joint disorder, myalgia, hypertonia. Neurological/Psychiatric : Anxiety, depression, somnolence, insomnia, nervousness, confusion, emotional lability, dizziness, vertigo, tremor, paresthesia, hyperesthesia, peripheral neuropathy (rare), Guillain-Barré syndrome (rare), transverse myelitis (rare), and intracranial hypertension. Respiratory/Pulmonary : Sinusitis, rhinitis, pharyngitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis/pleurisy, bronchitis, eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis. Skin : Alopecia, psoriasis (rare), pyoderma gangrenosum (rare), erythema nodosum, acne, dry skin, sweating, pruritus, urticaria, rash, SJS/TEN, DRESS, and AGEP [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Special Senses : Ear pain, tinnitus, ear congestion, ear disorder, conjunctivitis, eye pain, blurred vision, vision abnormality, taste perversion. Renal/Urogenital : Renal failure (rare), interstitial nephritis, minimal change disease, nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.7) ] , dysuria, urinary frequency and urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, decreased libido, dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia. Urine discoloration occurring ex-vivo caused by contact of mesalamine, including inactive metabolite, with surfaces or water treated with hypochlorite containing bleach. Laboratory Abnormalities : Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and/or other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of mesalamine delayed-release and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Interference With Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine delayed-release may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Consider an alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited published data on mesalamine use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk. No fetal harm was observed in animal reproduction studies of mesalamine in rats and rabbits at oral doses approximately 0.97 times (rat) and 1.95 times (rabbit) the recommended human dose (see Data ). The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Data Animal Data Reproduction studies with mesalamine were performed during organogenesis in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 480 mg/kg/day. There was no evidence of harm to the fetus. These mesalamine doses were about 0.97 times (rat) and 1.95 times (rabbit) the recommended human dose of 4.8 grams per day, based on body surface area.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release in pediatric patients have not been established. See the prescribing information for other approved mesalamine products for the safety and effectiveness of these products in pediatric patients.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of mesalamine delayed-release did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients. Reports from uncontrolled clinical studies and postmarketing reporting systems suggested a higher incidence of blood dyscrasias (i.e., agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia) in patients who were 65 years or older compared to younger patients taking mesalamine-containing products such as mesalamine delayed-release. Monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts in elderly patients during therapy with mesalamine delayed-release. In general, consider the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients when prescribing mesalamine delayed-release [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Mesalamine delayed-release is an aminosalicylate, and symptoms of salicylate toxicity include nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain, tachypnea, hyperpnea, tinnitus, and neurologic symptoms (headache, dizziness, confusion, seizures). Severe salicylate intoxication may lead to electrolyte and blood pH imbalance and potentially to other organ (e.g., renal and liver) involvement. There is no specific antidote for mesalamine overdose; however, conventional therapy for salicylate toxicity may be beneficial in the event of acute overdosage and may include gastrointestinal tract decontamination to prevent of further absorption. Correct fluid and electrolyte imbalance by the administration of appropriate intravenous therapy and maintain adequate renal function. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are a pH dependent product and this factor should be considered when treating a suspected overdose.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of mesalamine delayed-release tablets at 4.8 grams per day was studied in a six-week, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled study in 772 patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis (UC). Moderately active UC was defined as a Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score of 2; the PGA is a four-point scale (0 to 3) that encompasses the clinical assessments of rectal bleeding, stool frequency, and sigmoidoscopy findings. Patients were randomized 1:1 to the mesalamine delayed-release tablets 4.8 grams per day group (two mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablets three times a day) or the mesalamine delayed-release 2.4 grams per day group (two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets three times a day). Patients characteristically had a history of previous use of oral 5-ASAs (86%), steroids (41%), and rectal therapies (49%), and demonstrated clinical symptoms of three or more stools over normal per day (87%) and obvious blood in the stool most or all of the time (70%). The study population was primarily Caucasian (97%), had a mean age of 43 years (8% aged 65 years or older), and included slightly more males (56%) than females (44%). The primary endpoint was treatment success defined as improvement from baseline to Week 6 based on the PGA. Treatment success rates were similar in the two groups: 70% in the mesalamine delayed-release 4.8 grams group and 66% in the mesalamine delayed-release 2.4 grams group (difference: 5%; 95% CI: [-1.9%, 11.2%]). A second controlled study supported the efficacy of mesalamine delayed-release tablets at 4.8 grams per day. Treatment success was 72% in patients with moderately active UC treated with mesalamine delayed-release tablets 4.8 grams.

SPL TEXT:
Mesalamine Mesalamine MESALAMINE MESALAMINE SILICON DIOXIDE DIBUTYL SEBACATE HYPROMELLOSES LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE METHACRYLIC ACID AND ETHYL ACRYLATE COPOLYMER METHACRYLIC ACID - METHYL METHACRYLATE COPOLYMER (1:2) SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO POVIDONE TALC FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE PROPYLENE GLYCOL SHELLAC Red to dark red AN360 modified oval