DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP are an antiarrhythmic drug supplied in extended- release capsules of 225, 325, and 425 mg for oral administration. Chemically, propafenone hydrochloride is 2'-[2-hydroxy-3-(propylamino)-propoxy]-3- phenylpropiophenone hydrochloride, with a molecular weight of 377.92. The molecular formula is C 21 H 27 NO 3 ∙HCl. Propafenone HCl has some structural similarities to beta-blocking agents. The structural formula of propafenone HCl is given below: Propafenone HCl occurs as colorless crystals or white crystalline powder with a very bitter taste. It is slightly soluble in water (20°C), chloroform, and ethanol. Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP are filled with white to off white round, biconvex mini tablets containing propafenone and the following inactive ingredients: hypromellose and magnesium stearate. Each capsule contains titanium dioxide and gelatin. In addition, the 225 mg capsule contains D&C Yellow No. 10 and FD&C Red No. 3, the 325 mg capsule contains FD&C Blue No. 2, and the 425 mg capsule contains FD&C Green No. 3. The black imprinting ink consists of black iron oxide (ferrosoferric oxide), propylene glycol, potassium hydroxide, shellac, and ammonium hydroxide. USP Dissolution Test Pending Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Propafenone is a Class 1C antiarrhythmic drug with local anesthetic effects and a direct stabilizing action on myocardial membranes. The electrophysiological effect of propafenone manifests itself in a reduction of upstroke velocity (Phase 0) of the monophasic action potential. In Purkinje fibers, and, to a lesser extent, myocardial fibers, propafenone reduces the fast inward current carried by sodium ions. Diastolic excitability threshold is increased and effective refractory period prolonged. Propafenone reduces spontaneous automaticity and depresses triggered activity. Studies in anesthetized dogs and isolated organ preparations show that propafenone has beta- sympatholytic activity at about 1/50 the potency of propranolol. Clinical studies employing isoproterenol challenge and exercise testing after single doses of propafenone indicate a beta- adrenergic blocking potency (per mg) about 1/40 that of propranolol in man. In clinical trials with the immediate-release formulation, resting heart rate decreases of about 8% were noted at the higher end of the therapeutic plasma concentration range. At very high concentrations in vitro, propafenone can inhibit the slow inward current carried by calcium, but this calcium antagonist effect probably does not contribute to antiarrhythmic efficacy. Moreover, propafenone inhibits a variety of cardiac potassium currents in in vitro studies (i.e., the transient outward, the delayed rectifier, and the inward rectifier current). Propafenone has local anesthetic activity approximately equal to procaine. Compared with propafenone, the main metabolite, 5- hydroxypropafenone, has similar sodium and calcium channel activity, but about 10 times less beta-blocking activity. (N-depropylpropafenone has weaker sodium channel activity but equivalent affinity for beta-receptors.) 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology Electrophysiology trials in patients with ventricular tachycardia have shown that propafenone prolongs atrioventricular conduction while having little or no effect on sinus node function. Both atrioventricular nodal conduction time (AH interval) and His-Purkinje conduction time (HV interval) are prolonged. Propafenone has little or no effect on the atrial functional refractory period, but AV nodal functional and effective refractory periods are prolonged. In patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, propafenone hydrochloride immediate-release tablets reduce conduction and increase the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway in both directions. Electrocardiograms: Propafenone prolongs the PR and QRS intervals. Prolongation of the QRS interval makes it difficult to interpret the effect of propafenone on the QT interval. Table 1. Mean Change ± SD in 12-Lead Electrocardiogram Results (RAFT) Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Twice-Daily Dosing Placebo 225 mg 325 mg 425 mg n = 126 n = 135 n = 136 n = 126 PR (ms) 9 ± 22 12 ± 23 21 ± 24 1 ± 16 QRS (ms) 4 ± 14 6 ± 15 6 ± 15 -2 ± 12 Heart rate 5 ± 24 7 ± 23 2 ± 22 8 ± 27 QTc Calculated using Bazett's correction factor. (ms) 2 ± 30 5 ± 36 6 ± 37 5 ± 35 In RAFT [see Clinical Studies (14) ] , the distribution of the maximum changes in QTc compared with baseline over the trial in each patient was similar in the groups receiving propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules 225 mg twice daily, 325 mg twice daily, and 425 mg twice daily, and placebo. Similar results were seen in the ERAFT trial. Table 2. Number of Patients According to the Range of Maximum QTc Change Compared with Baseline over the Trial in Each Dose Group (RAFT Trial). Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Range Maximum QTc Change 225 mg Twice Daily N = 119 n (%) 325 mg Twice Daily N = 129 n (%) 425 mg Twice Daily N = 123 n (%) Placebo N = 100 n (%) >20% 1 (1) 6 (5) 3 (2) 5 (4) 10-20% 19 (16) 28 (22) 32 (26) 24 (20) 0 ≤10% 99 (83) 95 (74) 88 (72) 91 (76) Hemodynamics Trials in humans have shown that propafenone exerts a negative inotropic effect on the myocardium. Cardiac catheterization trials in patients with moderately impaired ventricular function (mean CI: 2.61 L/min/m 2 ) utilizing intravenous propafenone infusions (loading dose of 2 mg/kg over 10 min + followed by 2 mg/min for 30 min) that gave mean plasma concentrations of 3.0 mcg/mL (a dose that produces plasma levels of propafenone greater than recommended oral dosing) showed significant increases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances, and depression of cardiac output and cardiac index. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption/Bioavailability Maximal plasma levels of propafenone are reached between 3 to 8 hours following the administration of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Propafenone is known to undergo extensive and saturable presystemic biotransformation which results in a dose-dependent and dosage-form-dependent absolute bioavailability; e.g., a 150-mg immediate-release tablet had an absolute bioavailability of 3.4%, while a 300-mg immediate-release tablet had an absolute bioavailability of 10.6%. Absorption from a 300-mg solution dose was rapid, with an absolute bioavailability of 21.4%. At still larger doses, above those recommended, bioavailability of propafenone from immediate- release tablets increased still further. Relative bioavailability assessments have been performed between propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules and propafenone hydrochloride immediate-release tablets. In extensive metabolizers, the bioavailability of propafenone from the ER formulation was less than that of the immediate-release formulation as the more gradual release of propafenone from the prolonged-release preparations resulted in an increase of overall first-pass metabolism (see Metabolism ) . As a result of the increased first-pass effect, higher daily doses of propafenone were required from the ER formulation relative to the immediate-release formulation to obtain similar exposure to propafenone. The relative bioavailability of propafenone from the 325-mg twice-daily regimens of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules approximates that of propafenone hydrochloride immediate-release 150-mg 3-times-daily regimen. Mean exposure to 5-hydroxypropafenone was about 20% to 25% higher after ER capsule administration than after immediate-release tablet administration. Food increased the exposure to propafenone 4-fold after single-dose administration of 425 mg of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. However, in the multiple-dose trial (425-mg dose twice daily), the difference between the fed and fasted state was not significant. Distribution Following intravenous administration of propafenone, plasma levels decline in a bi-phasic manner consistent with a 2-compartment pharmacokinetic model. The average distribution half- life corresponding to the first phase was about 5 minutes. The volume of the central compartment was about 88 liters (1.1 L/kg) and the total volume of distribution about 252 liters. In serum, propafenone is greater than 95% bound to proteins within the concentration range of 0.5 to 2 mcg/mL. Metabolism There are 2 genetically determined patterns of propafenone metabolism. In over 90% of patients, the drug is rapidly and extensively metabolized with an elimination half-life from 2 to 10 hours. These patients metabolize propafenone into 2 active metabolites: 5-hydroxypropafenone, which is formed by CYP2D6, and N-depropylpropafenone (norpropafenone), which is formed by both CYP3A4 and CYP1A2. In less than 10% of patients, metabolism of propafenone is slower because the 5-hydroxy metabolite is not formed or is minimally formed. In these patients, the estimated propafenone elimination half-life ranges from 10 to 32 hours. Decreased ability to form the 5-hydroxy metabolite of propafenone is associated with a diminished ability to metabolize debrisoquine and a variety of other drugs, such as encainide, metoprolol, and dextromethorphan, whose metabolism is mediated by the CYP2D6 isozyme. In these patients, the N-depropylpropafenone metabolite occurs in quantities comparable to the levels occurring in extensive metabolizers. As a consequence of the observed differences in metabolism, administration of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules to slow and extensive metabolizers results in significant differences in plasma concentrations of propafenone, with slow metabolizers achieving concentrations about twice those of the extensive metabolizers at daily doses of 850 mg/day. At low doses the differences are greater, with slow metabolizers attaining concentrations about 3 to 4 times higher than extensive metabolizers. In extensive metabolizers, saturation of the hydroxylation pathway (CYP2D6) results in greater- than-linear increases in plasma levels following administration of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. In slow metabolizers, propafenone pharmacokinetics is linear. Because the difference decreases at high doses and is mitigated by the lack of the active 5-hydroxymetabolite in the slow metabolizers, and because steady-state conditions are achieved after 4 to 5 days of dosing in all patients, the recommended dosing regimen of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules is the same for all patients. The larger inter-subject variability in blood levels requires that the dose of the drug be titrated carefully in patients with close attention paid to clinical and ECG evidence of toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . The 5-hydroxypropafenone and norpropafenone metabolites have electrophysiologic properties similar to propafenone in vitro. In man after administration of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules, the 5- hydroxypropafenone metabolite is usually present in concentrations less than 40% of propafenone. The norpropafenone metabolite is usually present in concentrations less than 10% of propafenone. Inter-Subject Variability: With propafenone, there is a considerable degree of inter-subject variability in pharmacokinetics which is due in large part to the first-pass hepatic effect and non- linear pharmacokinetics in extensive metabolizers. A higher degree of inter-subject variability in pharmacokinetic parameters of propafenone was observed following both single- and multiple- dose administration of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Inter-subject variability appears to be substantially less in the poor-metabolizer group than in the extensive-metabolizer group, suggesting that a large portion of the variability is intrinsic to CYP2D6 polymorphism rather than to the formulation. Stereochemistry: Propafenone hydrochloride is a racemic mixture. The R- and S-enantiomers of propafenone display stereoselective disposition characteristics. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that the R-isomer of propafenone is cleared faster than the S-isomer via the 5-hydroxylation pathway (CYP2D6). This results in a higher ratio of S-propafenone to R-propafenone at steady state. Both enantiomers have equivalent potency to block sodium channels; however, the S-enantiomer is a more potent beta-antagonist than the R-enantiomer. Following administration of propafenone hydrochloride immediate-release tablets or propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules, the S/R ratio for the area under the plasma concentration-time curve was about 1.7. The S/R ratios of propafenone obtained after administration of 225-mg, 325-mg, and 425-mg propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules are independent of dose. In addition, no difference in the average values of the S/R ratios is evident between genotypes or over time. Specific Populations Patients with Hepatic Impairment: Decreased liver function increases the bioavailability of propafenone. Absolute bioavailability assessments have not been determined for the capsule formulation of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Absolute bioavailability of propafenone hydrochloride immediate-release tablets is inversely related to indocyanine green clearance, reaching 60% to 70% at clearances of 7 mL/min and below. Protein binding decreases to about 88% in patients with severe hepatic dysfunction. The clearance of propafenone is reduced and the elimination half-life increased in patients with significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] .

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Propafenone is a Class 1C antiarrhythmic drug with local anesthetic effects and a direct stabilizing action on myocardial membranes. The electrophysiological effect of propafenone manifests itself in a reduction of upstroke velocity (Phase 0) of the monophasic action potential. In Purkinje fibers, and, to a lesser extent, myocardial fibers, propafenone reduces the fast inward current carried by sodium ions. Diastolic excitability threshold is increased and effective refractory period prolonged. Propafenone reduces spontaneous automaticity and depresses triggered activity. Studies in anesthetized dogs and isolated organ preparations show that propafenone has beta- sympatholytic activity at about 1/50 the potency of propranolol. Clinical studies employing isoproterenol challenge and exercise testing after single doses of propafenone indicate a beta- adrenergic blocking potency (per mg) about 1/40 that of propranolol in man. In clinical trials with the immediate-release formulation, resting heart rate decreases of about 8% were noted at the higher end of the therapeutic plasma concentration range. At very high concentrations in vitro, propafenone can inhibit the slow inward current carried by calcium, but this calcium antagonist effect probably does not contribute to antiarrhythmic efficacy. Moreover, propafenone inhibits a variety of cardiac potassium currents in in vitro studies (i.e., the transient outward, the delayed rectifier, and the inward rectifier current). Propafenone has local anesthetic activity approximately equal to procaine. Compared with propafenone, the main metabolite, 5- hydroxypropafenone, has similar sodium and calcium channel activity, but about 10 times less beta-blocking activity. (N-depropylpropafenone has weaker sodium channel activity but equivalent affinity for beta-receptors.)

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated to prolong the time to recurrence of symptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with episodic (most likely paroxysmal or persistent) AF who do not have structural heart disease. Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules are an antiarrhythmic indicated to prolong the time to recurrence of symptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with episodic (most likely paroxysmal or persistent) AF who do not have structural heart disease. ( 1 ) Usage Considerations: Use in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation or with atrial flutter or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) has not been evaluated. Do not use to control ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation. ( 1 ) In patients with atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter, use propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules with drugs that increase the atrioventricular nodal refractory period. ( 1 ) The effect of propafenone on mortality has not been determined. ( 1 ) Usage Considerations: The use of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules in patients with permanent AF or in patients exclusively with atrial flutter or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) has not been evaluated. Do not use propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules to control ventricular rate during AF. Some patients with atrial flutter treated with propafenone have developed 1:1 conduction, producing an increase in ventricular rate. Concomitant treatment with drugs that increase the functional atrioventricular (AV) nodal refractory period is recommended. The effect of propafenone on mortality has not been determined [see Boxed Warning ] .

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in the following circumstances: Heart failure Cardiogenic shock Sinoatrial, atrioventricular, and intraventricular disorders of impulse generation or conduction (e.g., sick sinus node syndrome, AV block) in the absence of an artificial pacemaker Known Brugada Syndrome Bradycardia Marked hypotension Bronchospastic disorders or severe obstructive pulmonary disease Marked electrolyte imbalance Heart failure ( 4 ) Cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) Sinoatrial, atrioventricular, and intraventricular disorders of impulse generation and/or conduction in the absence of pacemaker ( 4 ) Known Brugada Syndrome ( 4 ) Bradycardia ( 4 ) Marked hypotension ( 4 ) Bronchospastic disorders and severe obstructive pulmonary disease ( 4 ) Marked electrolyte imbalance ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: MORTALITY In the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST), a long-term, multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial in patients with asymptomatic non-life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias who had a myocardial infarction more than 6 days but less than 2 years previously, an increased rate of death or reversed cardiac arrest rate (7.7%; 56/730) was seen in patients treated with encainide or flecainide (Class IC antiarrhythmics) compared with that seen in patients assigned to placebo (3.0%; 22/725). The average duration of treatment with encainide or flecainide in this trial was 10 months. The applicability of the CAST results to other populations (e.g., those without recent myocardial infarction) or other antiarrhythmic drugs is uncertain, but at present, it is prudent to consider any IC antiarrhythmic to have a significant proarrhythmic risk in patients with structural heart disease. Given the lack of any evidence that these drugs improve survival, antiarrhythmic agents should generally be avoided in patients with non-life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, even if the patients are experiencing unpleasant, but not life-threatening, symptoms or signs. WARNING: MORTALITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. An increased rate of death or reversed cardiac arrest rate was seen in patients treated with encainide or flecainide (Class IC antiarrhythmics) compared with that seen in patients assigned to placebo. At present, it is prudent to consider any IC antiarrhythmic to have a significant risk of provoking proarrhythmic events in patients with structural heart disease. Given the lack of any evidence that these drugs improve survival, antiarrhythmic agents should generally be avoided in patients with non-life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, even if the patients are experiencing unpleasant, but not life-threatening, symptoms or signs.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules can be taken with or without food. Do not crush or further divide the contents of the capsule. The dose of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules must be individually titrated on the basis of response and tolerance. Initiate therapy with propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules 225 mg given every 12 hours. Dosage may be increased at a minimum of 5-day intervals to 325 mg given every 12 hours. If additional therapeutic effect is needed, the dose of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules may be increased to 425 mg given every 12 hours. In patients with hepatic impairment or those with significant widening of the QRS complex or second- or third-degree AV block, consider reducing the dose. The combination of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibition and either cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) deficiency or CYP2D6 inhibition with the simultaneous administration of propafenone may significantly increase the concentration of propafenone and thereby increase the risk of proarrhythmia and other adverse events. Therefore, avoid simultaneous use of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules with both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Initiate therapy with 225 mg given every 12 hours. ( 2 ) Dosage may be increased at a minimum of 5-day intervals to 325 mg every 12 hours and, if necessary, to 425 mg every 12 hours. ( 2 ) Consider reducing the dose in patients with hepatic impairment, significant widening of the QRS complex, or second- or third-degree AV block. ( 2 )

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly reported adverse events with propafenone (greater than 5% and greater than placebo) excluding those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug included the following: dizziness, palpitations, chest pain, dyspnea, taste disturbance, nausea, fatigue, anxiety, constipation, upper respiratory tract infection, edema, and influenza. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wilshire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-877-495-6856 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules 225 mg twice daily in 126 patients, to propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules 325 mg twice daily in 135 patients, to propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules 425 mg twice daily in 136 patients, and to placebo in 126 patients for up to 39 weeks (mean: 20 weeks) in a placebo- controlled trial (RAFT) conducted in the U.S. The most commonly reported adverse events with propafenone (greater than 5% and greater than placebo) excluding those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug or because they were associated with the condition being treated, were dizziness, palpitations, chest pain, dyspnea, taste disturbance, nausea, fatigue, anxiety, constipation, upper respiratory tract infection, edema, and influenza. The frequency of discontinuation due to adverse events was 17%, and the rate was highest during the first 14 days of treatment. Cardiac-related adverse events occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of the patients in any of the RAFT propafenone extended-release capsules treatment groups and more common with propafenone than with placebo, excluding those that are common in the population and those not plausibly related to drug therapy, included the following: angina pectoris, atrial flutter, AV block first-degree, bradycardia, congestive cardiac failure, cardiac murmur, edema, dyspnea, rales, wheezing, and cardioactive drug level above therapeutic. Propafenone prolongs the PR and QRS intervals in patients with atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. Prolongation of the QRS interval makes it difficult to interpret the effect of propafenone on the QT interval [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Non-cardiac related adverse events occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of the patients in any of the RAFT propafenone extended-release capsules treatment groups and more common with propafenone than with placebo, excluding those that are common in the population and those not plausibly related to drug therapy, included the following: blurred vision, constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, weakness, upper respiratory tract infection, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, hematuria, muscle weakness, dizziness (excluding vertigo), headache, taste disturbance, tremor, somnolence, anxiety, depression, ecchymosis. No clinically important differences in incidence of adverse reactions were noted by age or gender. Too few non-Caucasian patients were enrolled to assess adverse events according to race. Adverse events occurring in 2% or more of the patients in any of the ERAFT [see Clinical Studies (14) ] propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules treatment groups and not listed above include the following: bundle branch block left, bundle branch block right, conduction disorders, sinus bradycardia, and hypotension. Other adverse events reported with propafenone clinical trials not already listed elsewhere in the prescribing information include the following adverse events by body system and preferred term. Blood and Lymphatic System Anemia, lymphadenopathy, spleen disorder, thrombocytopenia. Cardiac Unstable angina, atrial hypertrophy, cardiac arrest, coronary artery disease, extrasystoles, myocardial infarction, nodal arrhythmia, palpitations, pericarditis, sinoatrial block, sinus arrest, sinus arrhythmia, supraventricular extrasystoles, ventricular extrasystoles, ventricular hypertrophy. Ear and Labyrinth Hearing impaired, tinnitus, vertigo. Eye Eye hemorrhage, eye inflammation, eyelid ptosis, miosis, retinal disorder, visual acuity reduced. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distension, abdominal pain, duodenitis, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, gingival bleeding, glossitis, glossodynia, gum pain, halitosis, intestinal obstruction, melena, mouth ulceration, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, rectal bleeding, sore throat. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Chest pain, feeling hot, hemorrhage, malaise, pain, pyrexia. Hepatobiliary Hepatomegaly. Investigations Abnormal heart sounds, abnormal pulse, carotid bruit, decreased blood chloride, decreased blood pressure, decreased blood sodium, decreased hemoglobin, decreased neutrophil count, decreased platelet count, decreased prothrombin level, decreased red blood cell count, decreased weight, glycosuria present, increased alanine aminotransferase, increased aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood bilirubin, increased blood cholesterol, increased blood creatinine, increased blood glucose, increased blood lactate dehydrogenase, increased blood pressure, increased blood prolactin, increased blood triglycerides, increased blood urea, increased blood uric acid, increased eosinophil count, increased gamma-glutamyltransferase, increased monocyte count, increased prostatic specific antigen, increased prothrombin level, increased weight, increased white blood cell count, ketonuria present, proteinuria present. Metabolism and Nutrition Anorexia, dehydration, diabetes mellitus, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, hypokalemia. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Arthritis, bursitis, collagen-vascular disease, costochondritis, joint disorder, muscle cramps, muscle spasms, myalgia, neck pain, pain in jaw, sciatica, tendonitis. Nervous System Amnesia, ataxia, balance impaired, brain damage, cerebrovascular accident, dementia, gait abnormal, hypertonia, hypothesia, insomnia, paralysis, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, speech disorder, syncope, tongue hypoesthesia. Psychiatric Decreased libido, emotional disturbance, mental disorder, neurosis, nightmare, sleep disorder. Renal and Urinary Dysuria, nocturia, oliguria, pyuria, renal failure, urinary casts, urinary frequency, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urine abnormal. Reproductive System and Breast Breast pain, impotence, prostatism. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Atelectasis, breath sounds decreased, chronic obstructive airways disease, cough, epistaxis, hemoptysis, lung disorder, pleural effusion, pulmonary congestion, rales, respiratory failure, rhinitis, throat tightness. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, erythema, nail abnormality, petechiae, pruritus, sweating increased, urticaria. Vascular Arterial embolism limb, deep limb venous thrombosis, flushing, hematoma, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, hypotension, labile blood pressure, pallor, peripheral coldness, peripheral vascular disease, thrombosis.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP2D6, 1A2, and 3A4 may increase propafenone levels which may lead to cardiac arrhythmias. Simultaneous use with both a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor (or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency) should be avoided. ( 7.1 ) Propafenone may increase digoxin or warfarin levels. ( 7.2 , 7.3 ) Orlistat may reduce propafenone concentrations. Abrupt cessation of orlistat in patients stable on propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules has resulted in convulsions, atrioventricular block, and circulatory failure. ( 7.4 ) Concomitant use of lidocaine may increase central nervous system side effects. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 (such as desipramine, paroxetine, ritonavir, sertraline) and CYP3A4 (such as ketoconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, erythromycin, grapefruit juice) can be expected to cause increased plasma levels of propafenone. The combination of CYP3A4 inhibition and either CYP2D6 deficiency or CYP2D6 inhibition with administration of propafenone may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including proarrhythmia. Therefore, simultaneous use of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules with both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inhibitor should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Amiodarone Concomitant administration of propafenone and amiodarone can affect conduction and repolarization and is not recommended. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of propafenone immediate-release tablets and cimetidine in 12 healthy subjects resulted in a 20% increase in steady-state plasma concentrations of propafenone. Fluoxetine Concomitant administration of propafenone and fluoxetine in extensive metabolizers increased the S-propafenone C max and AUC by 39% and 50%, respectively, and the R-propafenone C max and AUC by 71% and 50%, respectively. Quinidine Small doses of quinidine completely inhibit the CYP2D6 hydroxylation metabolic pathway, making all patients, in effect, slow metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of quinidine (50 mg 3 times daily) with 150-mg immediate-release propafenone 3 times daily decreased the clearance of propafenone by 60% in extensive metabolizers, making them poor metabolizers. Steady-state plasma concentrations increased by more than 2-fold for propafenone and decreased 50% for 5-OH-propafenone. A 100-mg dose of quinidine increased steady-state concentrations of propafenone 3-fold. Avoid concomitant use of propafenone and quinidine. Rifampin Concomitant administration of rifampin and propafenone in extensive metabolizers decreased the plasma concentrations of propafenone by 67% with a corresponding decrease of 5-OH- propafenone by 65%. The concentrations of norpropafenone increased by 30%. In poor metabolizers, there was a 50% decrease in propafenone plasma concentrations and an increase in the AUC and C max of norpropafenone by 74% and 20%, respectively. Urinary excretion of propafenone and its metabolites decreased significantly. Similar results were noted in elderly patients: Both the AUC and C max of propafenone decreased by 84%, with a corresponding decrease in AUC and C max of 5-OH-propafenone by 69% and 57%, respectively. 7.2 Digoxin Concomitant use of propafenone and digoxin increased steady-state serum digoxin exposure (AUC) in patients by 60% to 270% and decreased the clearance of digoxin by 31% to 67%. Monitor plasma digoxin levels of patients receiving propafenone and adjust digoxin dosage as needed. 7.3 Warfarin The concomitant administration of propafenone and warfarin increased warfarin plasma concentrations at steady state by 39% in healthy volunteers and prolonged the prothrombin time (PT) in patients taking warfarin. Adjust the warfarin dose as needed by monitoring INR (international normalized ratio). 7.4 Orlistat Orlistat may limit the fraction of propafenone available for absorption. In postmarketing reports, abrupt cessation of orlistat in patients stabilized on propafenone has resulted in severe adverse events including convulsions, atrioventricular block, and acute circulatory failure. 7.5 Beta-Antagonists Concomitant use of propafenone and propranolol in healthy subjects increased propranolol plasma concentrations at steady state by 113%. In 4 patients, administration of metoprolol with propafenone increased the metoprolol plasma concentrations at steady state by 100% to 400%. The pharmacokinetics of propafenone was not affected by the coadministration of either propranolol or metoprolol. In clinical trials using propafenone immediate-release tablets, patients who were receiving beta-blockers concurrently did not experience an increased incidence of side effects. 7.6 Lidocaine No significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of propafenone or lidocaine have been seen following their concomitant use in patients. However, concomitant use of propafenone and lidocaine has been reported to increase the risks of central nervous system side effects of lidocaine.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary In the absence of studies in pregnant women, available data from published case reports and several decades of postmarketing experience with use of propafenone hydrochloride in pregnancy have not identified any drug-associated risks of miscarriage, birth defects, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Untreated arrhythmias during pregnancy may pose a risk to the pregnant woman and fetus (see Clinical Considerations ). Propafenone and its metabolite, 5-OH-propafenone, cross the placenta in humans. In animal studies, propafenone was not teratogenic. At maternally toxic doses (ranging from 2 to 6 times the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD]), there was evidence of adverse developmental outcomes when administered to pregnant rabbits and rats during organogenesis or when administered to pregnant rats during mid-gestation through weaning of their offspring (see Data ) . The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated maternal and/or embryo/fetal risk: The incidence of VT is increased and may be more symptomatic during pregnancy. Ventricular arrhythmias most often occur in pregnant women with underlying cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, valvular heart disease, or mitral valve prolapse. Breakthrough arrhythmias may also occur during pregnancy, as therapeutic treatment levels may be difficult to maintain due to the increased volume of distribution and increased drug metabolism inherent in the pregnant state. Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions: Propafenone and its metabolite have been shown to cross the placenta. Adverse reactions such as fetal/neonatal arrhythmias have been associated with the use of other antiarrhythmic agents by pregnant women. Fetal/neonatal monitoring for signs and symptoms of arrhythmia is recommended during and after treatment of pregnant women with propafenone. Labor or Delivery: Risk of arrhythmias may increase during labor and delivery. Patients treated with propafenone hydrochloride should be monitored continuously for arrhythmias during labor and delivery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Data Propafenone has been shown to cause embryo-fetal mortality in rabbits and rats when given orally during organogenesis at maternally toxic doses of 150 mg/kg/day (rabbit: maternal mortality, decreased body weight gain and food consumption at approximately 3 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) and 600 mg/kg/day (rat: maternal decreased body weight gain and food consumption at approximately 6 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). In addition, a maternally toxic dose of 600 mg/kg/day (approximately 6 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) also caused decreased fetal weights in rats. Increased placental weights and delayed ossification occurred in rabbits at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day (less than the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) in the absence of maternal toxicity. No adverse developmental outcomes in the absence of maternal toxicity were seen following oral doses of 15 mg/kg/day to rabbits or up to 270 mg/kg/day to rats administered during organogenesis (equivalent to 0.3 times or approximately 3 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis, respectively). In an oral study, female rats received propafenone up to 500 mg/kg/day from mid-gestation through weaning. At 90 mg/kg/day (equivalent to the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis), there were no adverse developmental outcomes in the absence of maternal toxicity. However, doses ≥180 mg/kg/day (2 or more times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) produced increases in maternal deaths and resulted in reductions in neonatal survival, body weight gain, and delayed development in the presence of maternal toxicity.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of propafenone in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in Phase 3 clinical trials of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules (propafenone hydrochloride) 46% were 65 and older, while 16% were 75 and older. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals at higher doses cannot be ruled out. The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propafenone has not been studied.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage may include hypotension, somnolence, bradycardia, intra-atrial and intraventricular conduction disturbances, and rarely, convulsions and high-grade ventricular arrhythmias. Defibrillation, as well as infusion of dopamine and isoproterenol, has been effective in controlling abnormal rhythm and blood pressure. Convulsions have been alleviated with intravenous diazepam. General supportive measures such as mechanical respiratory assistance and external cardiac massage may be necessary. The hemodialysis of propafenone in patients with an overdose is expected to be of limited value in the removal of propafenone as a result of both its high protein binding (greater than 95%) and large volume of distribution.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules have been evaluated in patients with a history of electrocardiographically documented recurrent episodes of symptomatic AF in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled trials. RAFT In one U.S. multicenter trial (RAFT), 3 doses of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules (225 mg twice daily, 325 mg twice daily, and 425 mg twice daily) and placebo were compared in 523 patients with symptomatic, episodic AF. The patient population in this trial was 59% male with a mean age of 63 years, 91% white, and 6% black. The patients had a median history of AF of 13 months and documented symptomatic AF within 12 months of trial entry. Over 90% were NYHA Class I, and 21% had a prior electrical cardioversion. At baseline, 24% were treated with calcium channel blockers, 37% with beta-blockers, and 38% with digoxin. Symptomatic arrhythmias after randomization were documented by transtelephonic electrocardiogram and centrally read and adjudicated by a blinded adverse event committee. Propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules administered for up to 39 weeks was shown to prolong significantly the time to the first recurrence of symptomatic atrial arrhythmia, predominantly AF, from Day 1 of randomization (primary efficacy variable) compared with placebo, as shown in Table 3. Table 3. Analysis of Tachycardia-Free Period (Days) from Day 1 of Randomization Dose of Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules 225 mg Twice Daily (N = 126) 325 mg Twice Daily (N = 135) 425 mg Twice Daily (N = 136) Placebo (N = 126) Parameter n (%) n (%) n (%) n (%) Patients completing with terminating event Terminating events comprised 91% AF, 5% atrial flutter, and 4% PSVT. 66 (52) 56 (41) 41 (30) 87 (69) Comparison of tachycardia-free periods Kaplan-Meier Media 112 291 NA Not Applicable: Fewer than 50% of the patients had events. The median time is not calculable. 41 Range 0 - 285 0 - 293 0 - 300 0 - 289 P -Value (Log-rank test) 0.014 <0.0001 <0.0001 -- Hazard Ratio compared with placebo 0.67 0.43 0.35 -- 95% CI for Hazard Ratio (0.49, 0.93) (0.31, 0.61) (0.24, 0.51) -- There was a dose response for propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules for the tachycardia-free period as shown in the proportional hazard analysis and the Kaplan-Meier curves presented in Figure 1. Figure 1. RAFT Kaplan-Meier Analysis for the Tachycardia-Free Period from Day 1 of Randomization In additional analyses, propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules (225 mg twice daily, 325 mg twice daily, and 425 mg twice daily) was also shown to prolong time to the first recurrence of symptomatic AF from Day 5 (steady-state pharmacokinetics were attained). The antiarrhythmic effect of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules was not influenced by age, gender, history of cardioversion, duration of AF, frequency of AF, or use of medication that lowers heart rate. Similarly, the antiarrhythmic effect of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules was not influenced by the individual use of calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers, or digoxin. Too few non-white patients were enrolled to assess the influence of race on effects of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. No difference in the average heart rate during the first recurrence of symptomatic arrhythmia between propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules and placebo was observed. Figure 1 ERAFT In a European multicenter trial (European Propafenone Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Atrial Fibrillation Trial [ERAFT]), 2 doses of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules (325 mg twice daily and 425 mg twice daily) and placebo were compared in 293 patients with documented electrocardiographic evidence of symptomatic paroxysmal AF. The patient population in this trial was 61% male, 100% white with a mean age of 61 years. Patients had a median duration of AF of 3.3 years, and 61% were taking medications that lowered heart rate. At baseline, 15% of the patients were treated with calcium channel blockers (verapamil and diltiazem), 42% with beta-blockers, and 8% with digoxin. During a qualifying period of up to 28 days, patients had to have 1 ECG-documented incident of symptomatic AF. The double-blind treatment phase consisted of a 4-day loading period followed by a 91-day efficacy period. Symptomatic arrhythmias were documented by electrocardiogram monitoring. In ERAFT, propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules were shown to prolong the time to the first recurrence of symptomatic atrial arrhythmia from Day 5 of randomization (primary efficacy analysis). The proportional hazard analysis revealed that both doses of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules were superior to placebo. The antiarrhythmic effect of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules was not influenced by age, gender, duration of AF, frequency of AF, or use of medication that lowers heart rate. It was also not influenced by the individual use of calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers, or digoxin. Too few non-white patients were enrolled to assess the influence of race on the effects of propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules. There was a slight increase in the incidence of centrally diagnosed asymptomatic AF or atrial flutter in each of the 2 treatment groups receiving propafenone hydrochloride extended-release capsules compared with placebo.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage: Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). Dispense in a tight container.

SPL TEXT:
PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED D&C Yellow No. 10 FD&C Red No. 3 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE Propylene Glycol POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC Ammonia I146 PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE Propylene Glycol POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC Ammonia I145 PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYDROCHLORIDE PROPAFENONE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED FD&C GREEN NO. 3 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE Propylene Glycol POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC Ammonia I144