DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% contains mometasone furoate for topical use. Mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity. Chemically, mometasone furoate is 9α, 21-dichloro-11β,17-dihydroxy-16α-methylpregna-1,4-diene-3,20-dione 17-(2-furoate), with the empirical formula C 27 H 30 Cl 2 O 6 , a molecular weight of 521.4 and the following structural formula: Mometasone furoate is a white to off-white powder practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble in octanol, and moderately soluble in ethyl alcohol. Each gram of Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% contains 1 mg mometasone furoate in a white to off-white cream base of aluminum starch octenylsuccinate, ceteareth-20, phosphoric acid, propylene glycol, propylene glycol stearate, purified water, stearyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, white petrolatum and white wax. Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Like other topical corticosteroids, mometasone furoate has anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive properties. The mechanism of the anti-inflammatory activity of the topical steroids, in general, is unclear. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A 2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A 2 . 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Studies performed with mometasone furoate cream indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids. In a study evaluating the effects of mometasone furoate cream on the HPA axis, 15 grams were applied twice daily for 7 days to six adult subjects with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis. The cream was applied without occlusion to at least 30% of the body surface. The results showed that the drug caused a slight lowering of adrenal corticosteroid secretion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Ninety-seven pediatric subjects ages 6 to 23 months with atopic dermatitis were enrolled in an open-label HPA axis safety study. Mometasone furoate cream was applied once daily for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 41% (range 15% to 94%). In approximately 16% of subjects who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment, adrenal suppression was observed at the end of treatment with mometasone furoate cream. The criteria for suppression were: basal cortisol level of ≤5 mcg/dL, 30-minute post-stimulation level of ≤18 mcg/dL, or an increase of <7 mcg/dL. Follow-up testing 2 to 4 weeks after stopping treatment, available for 5 of the subjects, demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in one subject, using these same criteria [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier. Studies in humans indicate that approximately 0.4% of the applied dose of mometasone furoate cream enters the circulation after 8 hours of contact on normal skin without occlusion. Inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Like other topical corticosteroids, mometasone furoate has anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive properties. The mechanism of the anti-inflammatory activity of the topical steroids, in general, is unclear. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A 2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A 2 .

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥2 years of age. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone furoate cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. Mometasone furoate cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate cream to the affected skin areas once daily. Mometasone furoate cream may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older. Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age; use in this age group is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not use mometasone furoate cream with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Do not apply mometasone furoate cream in the diaper area if the patient still requires diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing. Avoid contact with eyes. Wash hands after each application. Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae. Mometasone furoate cream is for topical use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. 1. Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once daily. ( 2 ) 2. Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. ( 2 ) 3. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassess diagnosis. ( 2 ) 4. Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. ( 2 )

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are: burning, pruritus, and skin atrophy. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc., at 1-866-923-4914 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In controlled clinical trials involving 319 subjects, the incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream was 1.6%. Reported reactions included burning, pruritus, and skin atrophy. Reports of rosacea associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream have also been received. In controlled clinical trials (n=74) involving pediatric subjects 2 to 12 years of age, the incidence of adverse experiences associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream was approximately 7%. Reported reactions included stinging, pruritus, and furunculosis. The following adverse reactions were reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with mometasone furoate cream during clinical trials in 4% of 182 pediatric subjects 6 months to 2 years of age: decreased glucocorticoid levels, 2; paresthesia, 2; folliculitis, 1; moniliasis, 1; bacterial infection, 1; skin depigmentation, 1. The following signs of skin atrophy were also observed among 97 subjects treated with mometasone furoate cream in a clinical trial: shininess, 4; telangiectasia, 1; loss of elasticity, 4; loss of normal skin markings, 4; thinness, 1; and bruising, 1. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids include irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae, and miliaria. These adverse reactions may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. Postmarketing reports for ophthalmic adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids include blurred vision, cataracts, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and central serous chorioretinopathy.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with mometasone furoate cream.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Therefore, mometasone furoate cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. When administered to pregnant rats, rabbits, and mice, mometasone furoate increased fetal malformations. The doses that produced malformations also decreased fetal growth, as measured by lower fetal weights and/or delayed ossification. Mometasone furoate also caused dystocia and related complications when administered to rats during the end of pregnancy. In mice, mometasone furoate caused cleft palate at subcutaneous doses of 60 mcg/kg and above. Fetal survival was reduced at 180 mcg/kg. No toxicity was observed at 20 mcg/kg. (Doses of 20 mcg/kg, 60 mcg/kg, and 180 mcg/kg in the mouse are approximately 0.01 times, 0.02 times, and 0.05 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg/m 2 basis.) In rats, mometasone furoate produced umbilical hernias at topical doses of 600 mcg/kg and above. A dose of 300 mcg/kg produced delays in ossification, but no malformations. (Doses of 300 mcg/kg and 600 mcg/kg in the rat are approximately 0.2 times and 0.4 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg/m 2 basis.) In rabbits, mometasone furoate caused multiple malformations (e.g., flexed front paws, gallbladder agenesis, umbilical hernia, hydrocephaly) at topical doses of 150 mcg/kg and above (approximately 0.2 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg/m 2 basis). In an oral study, mometasone furoate increased resorptions and caused cleft palate and/or head malformations (hydrocephaly and domed head) at 700 mcg/kg. At 2800 mcg/kg most litters were aborted or resorbed. No toxicity was observed at 140 mcg/kg. (Doses at 140 mcg/kg, 700 mcg/kg, and 2800 mcg/kg in the rabbit are approximately 0.2 times, 0.9 times, and 3.6 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg/m 2 basis.) When rats received subcutaneous doses of mometasone furoate throughout pregnancy or during the later stages of pregnancy, 15 mcg/kg caused prolonged and difficult labor and reduced the number of live births, birth weight, and early pup survival. Similar effects were not observed at 7.5 mcg/kg. (Doses of 7.5 mcg/kg and 15 mcg/kg in the rat are approximately 0.005 times and 0.01 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg/m 2 basis.)

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth, interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production, or cause other untoward effects. It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when mometasone furoate cream is administered to a nursing woman.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Mometasone furoate cream may be used with caution in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older, although the safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 3 weeks have not been established. Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age, its use in this age group is not recommended. In a pediatric trial, 24 atopic dermatitis subjects, of whom 19 subjects were age 2 to 12 years, were treated with mometasone furoate cream once daily. The majority of subjects cleared within 3 weeks. Mometasone furoate cream caused HPA axis suppression in approximately 16% of pediatric subjects ages 6 to 23 months, who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment, and were treated for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 41% (range 15% to 94%). The criteria for suppression were: basal cortisol level of ≤5 mcg/dL, 30-minute post-stimulation level of ≤18 mcg/dL, or an increase of <7 mcg/dL. Follow-up testing 2 to 4 weeks after trial completion, available for 5 of the subjects, demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in 1 subject, using these same criteria. Long-term use of topical corticosteroids has not been studied in this population [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass, pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing's syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids. They are, therefore, also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and/or after withdrawal of treatment. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to skin atrophy, including striae, when they are treated with topical corticosteroids. Pediatric patients applying topical corticosteroids to greater than 20% of body surface are at higher risk of HPA axis suppression. HPA axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, linear growth retardation, delayed weight gain, and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids. Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation. Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles, headaches, and bilateral papilledema. Mometasone furoate cream should not be used in the treatment of diaper dermatitis.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of mometasone furoate cream included 190 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 39 subjects who were 75 years of age and over. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. However, greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied mometasone furoate cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream for the treatment of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses were evaluated in two randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled clinical trials, one in psoriasis and one in atopic dermatitis. A total of 366 subjects (12 to 81 years of age), of whom 177 received mometasone furoate cream and 181 subjects received vehicle cream, were evaluated in these trials. Mometasone furoate cream or the vehicle cream were applied once daily for 21 days. The two trials showed mometasone furoate cream is effective in the treatment of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis.

SPL TEXT:
Mometasone Furoate Mometasone Furoate MOMETASONE FUROATE MOMETASONE aluminum starch octenylsuccinate polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether phosphoric acid propylene glycol propylene glycol monostearate water stearyl alcohol titanium dioxide petrolatum white wax