DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Aripiprazole is a psychotropic drug that is available as aripiprazole tablets. Aripiprazole tablets, USP are chemically designated as 7-[4-[4-(2,3-Dichlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]butoxy]-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone. The empirical formula is C 23 H 27 Cl 2 N 3 O 2 , and molecular weight is 448.39. The chemical structure is as follows: Aripiprazole tablets, USP are available in 2 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, and 30 mg strengths. Inactive ingredients include corn starch, FD&C Blue #2/Indigo Carmine Al, ferric oxide red, ferric oxide yellow, hydroxypropyl cellulose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. FDA approved dissolution test specifications differ from USP Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of aripiprazole in schizophrenia is unclear. However, the efficacy of aripiprazole in the listed indications could be mediated through a combination of partial agonist activity at D 2 and 5-HT 1A receptors and antagonist activity at 5-HT 2A receptors. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Aripiprazole exhibits high affinity for dopamine D 2 and D 3 , serotonin 5-HT 1A and 5-HT 2A receptors (K i values of 0.34 nM, 0.8 nM, 1.7 nM, and 3.4 nM, respectively), moderate affinity for dopamine D 4 , serotonin 5-HT 2C and 5-HT 7 , alpha 1 -adrenergic and histamine H 1 receptors (K i values of 44 nM, 15 nM, 39 nM, 57 nM, and 61 nM, respectively), and moderate affinity for the serotonin reuptake site (K i =98 nM). Aripiprazole has no appreciable affinity for cholinergic muscarinic receptors (IC 50 >1000 nM). 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Aripiprazole activity is presumably primarily due to the parent drug, aripiprazole, and to a lesser extent, to its major metabolite, dehydro-aripiprazole, which has been shown to have affinities for D 2 receptors similar to the parent drug and represents 40% of the parent drug exposure in plasma. The mean elimination half-lives are about 75 hours and 94 hours for aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole, respectively. Steady-state concentrations are attained within 14 days of dosing for both active moieties. Aripiprazole accumulation is predictable from single-dose pharmacokinetics. At steady-state, the pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole is dose-proportional. Elimination of aripiprazole is mainly through hepatic metabolism involving two P450 isozymes, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. For CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the mean elimination half-life for aripiprazole is about 146 hours. ORAL ADMINISTRATION Absorption Tablet : Aripiprazole is well absorbed after administration of the tablet, with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 3 hours to 5 hours; the absolute oral bioavailability of the tablet formulation is 87%. Aripiprazole can be administered with or without food. Administration of a 15 mg aripiprazole tablet with a standard high-fat meal did not significantly affect the Cmax or AUC of aripiprazole or its active metabolite, dehydro-aripiprazole, but delayed Tmax by 3 hours for aripiprazole and 12 hours for dehydro-aripiprazole. Distribution The steady-state volume of distribution of aripiprazole following intravenous administration is high (404 L or 4.9 L/kg), indicating extensive extravascular distribution. At therapeutic concentrations, aripiprazole and its major metabolite are greater than 99% bound to serum proteins, primarily to albumin. In healthy human volunteers administered 0.5 to 30 mg/day aripiprazole for 14 days, there was dose-dependent D2 receptor occupancy indicating brain penetration of aripiprazole in humans. Metabolism and Elimination Aripiprazole is metabolized primarily by three biotransformation pathways: dehydrogenation, hydroxylation, and N-dealkylation. Based on in vitro studies, CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 enzymes are responsible for dehydrogenation and hydroxylation of aripiprazole, and N-dealkylation is catalyzed by CYP3A4. Aripiprazole is the predominant drug moiety in the systemic circulation. At steady-state, dehydro-aripiprazole, the active metabolite, represents about 40% of aripiprazole AUC in plasma. Following a single oral dose of [ 14 C]-labeled aripiprazole, approximately 25% and 55% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in the urine and feces, respectively. Less than 1% of unchanged aripiprazole was excreted in the urine and approximately 18% of the oral dose was recovered unchanged in the feces. Drug Interaction Studies Effects of other drugs on the exposures of aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole are summarized in Figure 1 and Figure 2, respectively. Based on simulation, a 4.5-fold increase in mean C max and AUC values at steady-state is expected when extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 are administered with both strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors. A 3-fold increase in mean C max and AUC values at steady-state is expected in poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Figure 1: The effects of other drugs on aripiprazole pharmacokinetics Figure 2: The effects of other drugs on dehydro-aripiprazole pharmacokinetics The effects of aripiprazole on the exposures of other drugs are summarized in Figure 3. Figure 3: The effects of aripiprazole on pharmacokinetics of other drugs Studies in Specific Populations Exposures of aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole in specific populations are summarized in Figure 4 and Figure 5, respectively. In addition, in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years of age) administered with aripiprazole (20 mg to 30 mg), the body weight corrected aripiprazole clearance was similar to the adults. Figure 4: Effects of intrinsic factors on aripiprazole pharmacokinetics Figure 5: Effects of intrinsic factors on dehydro-aripiprazole pharmacokinetics Figure1 Figure2 Figure3 Figure4 Figure5

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of aripiprazole in schizophrenia is unclear. However, the efficacy of aripiprazole in the listed indications could be mediated through a combination of partial agonist activity at D 2 and 5-HT 1A receptors and antagonist activity at 5-HT 2A receptors.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole oral tablets are indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Aripiprazole tablets are an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulations are indicated for: • Schizophrenia ( 14.1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Aripiprazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to aripiprazole. Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • Known hypersensititivity to aripiprazole tablets ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS; AND SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS WITH ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Aripiprazole tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in patients over age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients aged 65 and older [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . In patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy, monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . WARNING: INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS and SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS WITH ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. • Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Aripiprazole tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. ( 5.1 ) • Increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults taking antidepressants. Monitor for worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. ( 5.3 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents ( 2.1 ) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day • Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals ( 2 ) • Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole tablets is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole tablets have been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Maintenance Treatment: Maintenance of efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a trial involving patients with schizophrenia who had been symptomatically stable on other antipsychotic medications for periods of 3 months or longer. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole tablets 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment. Adolescents The recommended target dose of aripiprazole tablets is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg. The starting daily dose of the tablet formulation in these patients was 2 mg, which was titrated to 5 mg after 2 days and to the target dose of 10 mg after 2 additional days. Subsequent dose increases should be administered in 5 mg increments. The 30 mg/day dose was not shown to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. Aripiprazole tablets can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Switching from Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole tablets or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.7 Dosage Adjustments for Cytochrome P450 Considerations Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers (see Table 2). When the coadministered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole tablets dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn, aripiprazole tablets dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Patients who may be receiving a combination of strong, moderate, and weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 (e.g., a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor), the dosing may be reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose initially and then adjusted to achieve a favorable clinical response. Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose StrongCYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: • Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Cerebrovascular Adverse Events, Including Stroke [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors in Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults [see Boxed Warning and Warnings Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Tardive Dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Metabolic Changes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Pathological Gambling and Other Compulsive Behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Orthostatic Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Falls [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] • Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] • Seizures/Convulsions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] • Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] • Body Temperature Regulation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] • Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] • Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] The most common adverse reactions in adult patients in clinical trials (≥10%) were nausea, vomiting, constipation, headache, dizziness, akathisia, anxiety, insomnia, and restlessness. The most common adverse reactions in the pediatric clinical trials (≥10%) were somnolence, headache, vomiting, extrapyramidal disorder, fatigue, increased appetite, insomnia, nausea, nasopharyngitis, and weight increased. Aripiprazole has been evaluated for safety in 13,543 adult patients who participated in multiple-dose, clinical trials in schizophrenia, other indications, Dementia of the Alzheimer’s type, Parkinson’s disease, and alcoholism, and who had approximately 7619 patient-years of exposure to oral aripiprazole. A total of 3390 patients were treated with oral aripiprazole for at least 180 days and 1933 patients treated with oral aripiprazole had at least 1 year of exposure. Aripiprazole has been evaluated for safety in 1,686 patients (6 to 18 years) who participated in multiple-dose, clinical trials in schizophrenia, or other indications and who had approximately 1,342 patient-years of exposure to oral aripiprazole. A total of 959 pediatric patients were treated with oral aripiprazole for at least 180 days and 556 pediatric patients treated with oral aripiprazole had at least 1 year of exposure. The conditions and duration of treatment with aripiprazole included (in overlapping categories) double-blind, comparative and noncomparative open-label studies, inpatient and outpatient studies, fixed- and flexible-dose studies, and short- and longer-term exposure. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence ≥5% and at least twice that for placebo) were ( 6.1 ): • Adult patients with schizophrenia: akathisia • Pediatric patients (13 to 17 years) with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal disorder, somnolence, and tremor To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact NorthStar Rx LLC at 1-800-206-7821 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Adult Patients with Schizophrenia The following findings are based on a pool of five placebo-controlled trials (four 4-week and one 6-week) in which oral aripiprazole was administered in doses ranging from 2 to 30 mg/day. Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions The only commonly observed adverse reaction associated with the use of aripiprazole in patients with schizophrenia (incidence of 5% or greater and aripiprazole incidence at least twice that for placebo) was akathisia (aripiprazole tablets 8%; placebo 4%). Less Common Adverse Reactions in Adults Table 17 enumerates the pooled incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of adverse reactions that occurred during acute therapy (up to 6 weeks in schizophrenia and up to 3 weeks in another indication), including only those reactions that occurred in 2% or more of patients treated with aripiprazole (doses ≥2 mg/day) and for which the incidence in patients treated with aripiprazole was greater than the incidence in patients treated with placebo in the combined dataset. Table 17: Adverse Reactions in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials in Adult Patients Treated with Oral Aripiprazole Tablets Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction * System Organ Class Aripiprazole Tablets Placebo Preferred Term ( n=1843) (n=1166) Eye Disorders Blurred Vision 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 15 11 Constipation 11 7 Vomiting 11 6 Dyspepsia 9 7 Dry Mouth 5 4 Toothache Abdominal Discomfort 4 3 3 2 Stomach Discomfort 3 2 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 6 4 Pain 3 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Musculoskeletal Stiffness 4 3 Pain in Extremity 4 2 Myalgia 2 1 Muscle Spasms 2 1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 27 23 Dizziness 10 7 Akathisia 10 4 Sedation 7 4 Extrapyramidal Disorder 5 3 Tremor 5 3 Somnolence 5 3 Psychiatric Disorders Agitation 19 17 Insomnia 18 13 Anxiety 17 13 Restlessness 5 3 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 3 2 Cough 3 2 * Adverse reactions reported by at least 2% of patients treated with oral aripiprazole, except adverse reactions which had an incidence equal to or less than placebo. An examination of population subgroups did not reveal any clear evidence of differential adverse reaction incidence on the basis of age, gender, or race. Pediatric Patients (13 to 17 years) with Schizophrenia The following findings are based on one 6-week, placebo-controlled trial in which oral aripiprazole was administered in doses ranging from 2 to 30 mg/day. Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment The incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions between aripiprazole-treated and placebo-treated pediatric patients (13 to 17 years) was 5% and 2%, respectively. Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions Commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of aripiprazole in adolescent patients with schizophrenia (incidence of 5% or greater and aripiprazole incidence at least twice that for placebo) were extrapyramidal disorder, somnolence, and tremor. Less Common Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients (6 to 18 years) with Schizophrenia, or Other Indications Table 22 enumerates the pooled incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of adverse reactions that occurred during acute therapy (up to 6 weeks in schizophrenia, up to 4 weeks in one indication, up to 8 weeks in another indication, and up to 10 weeks in another indication), including only those reactions that occurred in 2% or more of pediatric patients treated with aripiprazole (doses ≥2 mg/day) and for which the incidence in patients treated with aripiprazole was greater than the incidence in patients treated with placebo. Table 22: Adverse Reactions in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials of Pediatric Patients (6 to 18 years) Treated with Oral Aripiprazole Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction * System Organ Class Aripiprazole Tablets Placebo Preferred Term (n=732) (n=370) Eye Disorders Blurred Vision 3 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Discomfort21 Vomiting 8 7 Nausea 8 4 Diarrhea 4 3 Salivary Hypersecretion 4 1 Abdominal Pain Upper 3 2 Constipation 2 2 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 10 2 Pyrexia 4 1 Irritability 2 1 Asthenia 2 1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 6 3 Investigations Weight Increased 3 1 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Increased Appetite 7 3 Decreased Appetite 5 4 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Musculoskeletal Stiffness 2 1 Muscle Rigidity 2 1 Nervous System Disorders Somnolence 16 4 Headache 12 10 Sedation 9 2 Tremor 9 1 Extrapyramidal Disorder 6 1 Akathisia 6 4 Drooling 3 0 Lethargy 3 0 Dizziness 3 2 Dystonia 2 1 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Epistaxis 2 1 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 2 1 * Adverse reactions reported by at least 2% of pediatric patients treated with oral aripiprazole, except adverse reactions which had an incidence equal to or less than placebo. Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Dose response relationships for the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events were evaluated from four trials in adult patients with schizophrenia comparing various fixed doses (2, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 mg/day) of oral aripiprazole to placebo. This analysis, stratified by study, indicated that the only adverse reaction to have a possible dose response relationship, and then most prominent only with 30 mg, was somnolence [including sedation]; (incidences were placebo, 7.1%; 10 mg, 8.5%; 15 mg, 8.7%; 20 mg, 7.5%; 30 mg, 12.6%). In the study of pediatric patients (13 to 17 years of age) with schizophrenia, three common adverse reactions appeared to have a possible dose response relationship: extrapyramidal disorder (incidences were placebo, 5%; 10 mg, 13%; 30 mg, 21.6%); somnolence (incidences were placebo, 6%; 10 mg, 11%; 30 mg, 21.6%); and tremor (incidences were placebo, 2%; 10 mg, 2%; 30 mg, 11.8%). Extrapyramidal Symptoms Schizophrenia In short-term, placebo-controlled trials in schizophrenia in adults, the incidence of reported EPS-related events, excluding events related to akathisia, for aripiprazole-treated patients was 13% vs. 12% for placebo; and the incidence of akathisia-related events for aripiprazole-treated patients was 8% vs. 4% for placebo. In the short-term, placebo-controlled trial of schizophrenia in pediatric patients (13 to 17 years), the incidence of reported EPS-related events, excluding events related to akathisia, for aripiprazole-treated patients was 25% vs. 7% for placebo; and the incidence of akathisia-related events for aripiprazole-treated patients was 9% vs. 6% for placebo. Objectively collected data from those trials was collected on the Simpson Angus Rating Scale (for EPS), the Barnes Akathisia Scale (for akathisia), and the Assessments of Involuntary Movement Scales (for dyskinesias). In the adult schizophrenia trials, the objectively collected data did not show a difference between aripiprazole tablets and placebo, with the exception of the Barnes Akathisia Scale (aripiprazole, 0.08; placebo, –0.05). In the pediatric (13 to 17 years) schizophrenia trial, the objectively collected data did not show a difference between aripiprazole tablets and placebo, with the exception of the Simpson Angus Rating Scale (aripiprazole tablets, 0.24; placebo, –0.29). Similarly, in a long-term (26-week), placebo-controlled trial of schizophrenia in adults, objectively collected data on the Simpson Angus Rating Scale (for EPS), the Barnes Akathisia Scale (for akathisia), and the Assessments of Involuntary Movement Scales (for dyskinesias) did not show a difference between aripiprazole tablets and placebo. Dystonia Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. Additional Findings Observed in Clinical Trials Adverse Reactions in Long-Term, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials The adverse reactions reported in a 26-week, double-blind trial comparing oral aripiprazole tablets and placebo in patients with schizophrenia were generally consistent with those reported in the short-term, placebo-controlled trials, except for a higher incidence of tremor [8% (12/153) for aripiprazole tablets vs. 2% (3/153) for placebo]. In this study, the majority of the cases of tremor were of mild intensity (8/12 mild and 4/12 moderate), occurred early in therapy (9/12 ≤49 days), and were of limited duration (7/12 ≤10 days). Tremor infrequently led to discontinuation (<1%) of aripiprazole. In addition, in a long-term (52 week), active-controlled study, the incidence of tremor was 5% (40/859) for aripiprazole. Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of Aripiprazole The following listing does not include reactions: 1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, 2) for which a drug cause was remote, 3) which were so general as to be uninformative, 4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or 5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Reactions are categorized by body system according to the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients; rare reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients: Adults - Oral Administration Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : rare - thrombocytopenia Cardiac Disorders: infrequent – bradycardia, palpitations, rare – atrial flutter, cardio-respiratory arrest, atrioventricular block, atrial fibrillation, angina pectoris, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, cardiopulmonary failure Eye Disorders: infrequent – photophobia; rare - diplopia Gastrointestinal Disorders : infrequent - gastroesophageal reflux disease General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: frequent - asthenia; infrequent – peripheral edema, chest pain; rare – face edema Hepatobiliary Disorders: rare - hepatitis, jaundice Immune System Disorders: rare - hypersensitivity Injury, Poisoning, and Procedural Complications: Infrequent – fall; rare – heat stroke Investigations : frequent - weight decreased, infrequent - hepatic enzyme increased, blood glucose increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, gamma glutamyl transferase increased; rare – blood prolactin increased, blood urea increased, blood creatinine increased, blood bilirubin increased, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, glycosylated hemoglobin increased Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: frequent – anorexia; rare - hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: infrequent - muscular weakness, muscle tightness; rare – rhabdomyolysis, mobility decreased Nervous System Disorders: infrequent - parkinsonism, memory impairment, cogwheel rigidity, hypokinesia, bradykinesia; rare – akinesia, myoclonus, coordination abnormal, speech disorder, Grand Mal convulsion; <1/10,000 patients -choreoathetosis Psychiatric Disorders: infrequent – aggression, loss of libido, delirium; rare – libido increased, anorgasmia, tic, homicidal ideation, catatonia, sleep walking Renal and Urinary Disorders: rare - urinary retention, nocturia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: infrequent - erectile dysfunction; rare – gynaecomastia, menstruation irregular, amenorrhea, breast pain, priapism Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: infrequent - nasal congestion, dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: infrequent - rash, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, photosensitivity reaction, alopecia; rare -urticaria Vascular Disorders: infrequent – hypotension, hypertension Pediatric Patients - Oral Administration Most adverse events observed in the pooled database of 1,686 pediatric patients, aged 6 to 18 years, were also observed in the adult population. Additional adverse reactions observed in the pediatric population are listed below. Eye Disorders infrequent - oculogyric crisis Gastrointestinal Disorders: infrequent - tongue dry, tongue spasm Investigations: frequent - blood insulin increased Nervous System Disorders: infrequent - sleep talking Renal and Urinary Disorders: frequent – enuresis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: infrequent - hirsutism Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of aripiprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: occurrences of allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, laryngospasm, pruritus/urticaria, or oropharyngeal spasm), pathological gambling, hiccups, blood glucose fluctuation, oculogyric crisis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS).

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ) : Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose KnownCYP2D6Poor Metabolizersand strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose StrongCYP2D6 or CYP3A4inhibitors Administer half of usual dose StrongCYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose StrongCYP3A4inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Tablets Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP 3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [seeClinicalPharmacology ( 12.3 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosageand Administration( 2.7 )]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology( 12.3 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration( 2.7 )]. Antihypertensive Drugs Due to its alpha adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [seeWarnings and Precautions( 5.8 )]. Benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam) The intensity of sedation was greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam as compared to that observed with aripiprazole alone. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5.8 )]. Monitor sedation and blood pressure. Adjust dose accordingly. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Tablets Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lithium, lorazepam. In addition, no dosage adjustment is necessary for substrates of CYP2D6 (e.g., dextromethorphan, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or venlafaxine), CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin), CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, warfarin, escitalopram), or CYP3A4 (e.g., dextromethorphan) when co-administered with aripiprazole. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to atypical antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by contacting the National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics at 1-866-961-2388 or visit http://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry/. Risk Summary Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, including aripiprazole, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery (see Clinical Considerations) . Overall available data from published epidemiologic studies of pregnant women exposed to aripiprazole have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes (see Data) . There are risks to the mother associated with untreated schizophrenia, and with exposure to antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, during pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations) . In animal reproduction studies, oral and intravenous aripiprazole administration during organogenesis in rats and/or rabbits at doses 10 and 19 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 30 mg/day based on mg/m2 body surface area, produced fetal death, decreased fetal weight, undescended testicles, delayed skeletal ossification, skeletal abnormalities, and diaphragmatic hernia. Oral and intravenous aripiprazole administration during the pre- and post-natal period in rats at doses 10 times the MRHD based on mg/m2 body surface area, produced prolonged gestation, stillbirths, decreased pup weight, and decreased pup survival (see Data) . The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated maternal and/or embryo/fetal risk There is a risk to the mother from untreated schizophrenia including increased risk of relapse, hospitalization, and suicide. Schizophrenia is associated with increased adverse perinatal outcomes, including preterm birth. It is not known if this is a direct result of the illness or other comorbid factors. A prospective, longitudinal study followed 201 pregnant women with a history of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at the beginning of pregnancy. The women who discontinued antidepressants during pregnancy were more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continued antidepressants. Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum. Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms, including agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, and feeding disorder have been reported in neonates who were exposed to antipsychotic drugs (including aripiprazole) during the third trimester of pregnancy. These symptoms have varied in severity. Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms, and manage symptoms appropriately. Some neonates recovered within hours or days without specific treatment; others required prolonged hospitalization. Data Human data Published data from observational studies, birth registries, and case reports on the use of atypical antipsychotics during pregnancy do not report a clear association with antipsychotics and major birth defects. A retrospective study from a Medicaid database of 9258 women exposed to antipsychotics during pregnancy did not indicate an overall increased risk for major birth defects. Animal Data In animal studies, aripiprazole demonstrated developmental toxicity, including possible teratogenic effects in rats and rabbits. In pregnant rats treated orally with aripiprazole during organogenesis at doses of 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg/day, which are approximately 1, 3 and 10 times the MRHD of 30 mg/day based on mg/m2 body surface area, a slight prolongation of gestation and delay in fetal development, as evidenced by decreased fetal weight and undescended testes, were observed at 10 times the MRHD. Delayed skeletal ossification was observed at 3 and 10 times the MRHD. Delivered offspring had increased incidences of hepatodiaphragmatic nodules and diaphragmatic hernia were observed at 10 times the MRHD (the other dose groups were not examined for these findings). Postnatally, delayed vaginal opening was seen at 3 and 10 times the MRHD. Impaired reproductive performance (decreased fertility rate, corpora lutea, implants, live fetuses, and increased post-implantation loss, likely mediated through effects on female offspring) were observed at 10 times the MRHD; however, there was no evidence to suggest that these developmental effects were secondary to maternal toxicity. In pregnant rabbits treated orally with aripiprazole during organogenesis at doses of 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg/day which are 6, 19, and 65 times the MRHD of 30 mg/day based on mg/m2 body surface area, decreased maternal food consumption, and increased abortions as well as increased fetal mortality were observed at 65 times the MHRD. Decreased fetal weight and increased incidence of fused sternebrae were observed at 19 and 65 times the MRHD. In rats treated orally with aripiprazole peri- and post-natally from gestation day 17 through postpartum day 21 at doses of 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg/day which are 1, 3, and 10 times the MRHD of 30 mg/day based on mg/m2 body surface area slight maternal toxicity and slightly prolonged gestation were observed at 10 times the MHRD. An increase in stillbirths and, decreases in pup weight (persisting into adulthood) and survival were also seen at this dose.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole in pediatric patients, 10 to 17 years of age, were similar to those in adults after correcting for the differences in body weight [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Schizophrenia Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients with schizophrenia were established in a 6-week, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 202 pediatric patients aged 13 to 17 years [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Although maintenance efficacy in pediatric patients has not been systematically evaluated, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of aripiprazole pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and pediatric patients. Information describing a clinical study in which efficacy was not demonstrated in patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole). Additional pediatric use information in patients ages 6 to 18 years is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Juvenile Animal Studies Aripiprazole in juvenile rats caused mortality, CNS clinical signs, impaired memory and learning, and delayed sexual maturation when administered at oral doses of 10, 20, 40 mg/kg/day from weaning (21 days old) through maturity (80 days old). At 40 mg/kg/day, mortality, decreased activity, splayed hind limbs, hunched posture, ataxia, tremors and other CNS signs were observed in both genders. In addition, delayed sexual maturation was observed in males. At all doses and in a dose-dependent manner, impaired memory and learning, increased motor activity, and histopathology changes in the pituitary (atrophy), adrenals (adrenocortical hypertrophy), mammary glands (hyperplasia and increased secretion), and female reproductive organs (vaginal mucification, endometrial atrophy, decrease in ovarian corpora lutea) were observed. The changes in female reproductive organs were considered secondary to the increase in prolactin serum levels. A No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) could not be determined and, at the lowest tested dose of 10 mg/kg/day, there is no safety margin relative to the systemic exposures (AUC 0 to 24 ) for aripiprazole or its major active metabolite in adolescents at the maximum recommended pediatric dose of 15 mg/day. All drug-related effects were reversible after a 2-month recovery period, and most of the drug effects in juvenile rats were also observed in adult rats from previously conducted studies. Aripiprazole in juvenile dogs (2 months old) caused CNS clinical signs of tremors, hypoactivity, ataxia, recumbency and limited use of hind limbs when administered orally for 6 months at 3, 10, 30 mg/kg/day. Mean body weight and weight gain were decreased up to 18% in females in all drug groups relative to control values. A NOAEL could not be determined and, at the lowest tested dose of 3 mg/kg/day, there is no safety margin relative to the systemic exposures (AUC 0 to 24 ) for aripiprazole or its major active metabolite in adolescents at the maximum recommended pediatric dose of 15 mg/day. All drug-related effects were reversible after a 2-month recovery period.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use No dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Of the 13,543 patients treated with oral aripiprazole in clinical trials, 1073 (8%) were ≥65 years old and 799 (6%) were ≥75 years old. Placebo-controlled studies of oral aripiprazole in schizophrenia or other indications did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Aripiprazole is not approved for the treatment of patients with psychosis associated with Alzheimer’s disease [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE MedDRA terminology has been used to classify the adverse reactions. 10.1 Human Experience In clinical trials and in postmarketing experience, adverse reactions of deliberate or accidental overdosage with oral aripiprazole have been reported worldwide. These include overdoses with oral aripiprazole alone and in combination with other substances. No fatality was reported with aripiprazole alone. The largest known dose with a known outcome involved acute ingestion of 1260 mg of oral aripiprazole (42 times the maximum recommended daily dose) by a patient who fully recovered. Deliberate or accidental overdosage was also reported in children (age 12 and younger) involving oral aripiprazole tablet ingestions up to 195 mg with no fatalities. Common adverse reactions (reported in at least 5% of all overdose cases) reported with oral aripiprazole overdosage (alone or in combination with other substances) include vomiting, somnolence, and tremor. Other clinically important signs and symptoms observed in one or more patients with aripiprazole overdoses (alone or with other substances) include acidosis, aggression, aspartate aminotransferase increased, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, coma, confusional state, convulsion, blood creatine phosphokinase increased, depressed level of consciousness, hypertension, hypokalemia, hypotension, lethargy, loss of consciousness, QRS complex prolonged, QT prolonged, pneumonia aspiration, respiratory arrest, status epilepticus, and tachycardia. 10.2 Management of Overdosage No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with aripiprazole. An electrocardiogram should be obtained in case of overdosage and if QT interval prolongation is present, cardiac monitoring should be instituted. Otherwise, management of overdose should concentrate on supportive therapy, maintaining an adequate airway, oxygenation and ventilation, and management of symptoms. Close medical supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers. Charcoal : In the event of an overdose of aripiprazole, an early charcoal administration may be useful in partially preventing the absorption of aripiprazole. Administration of 50 g of activated charcoal, one hour after a single 15 mg oral dose of aripiprazole, decreased the mean AUC and C max of aripiprazole by 50%. Hemodialysis : Although there is no information on the effect of hemodialysis in treating an overdose with aripiprazole, hemodialysis is unlikely to be useful in overdose management since aripiprazole is highly bound to plasma proteins.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy of the oral formulations of aripiprazole was established in the following adequate and well-controlled trials: • Four short-term trials and one maintenance trial in adult patients and one short-term trial in adolescents (ages 13 to 17) with schizophrenia [see clinical studies ( 14.1 )] Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 14.1 Schizophrenia Adults The efficacy of aripiprazole in the treatment of schizophrenia was evaluated in five short-term (4-week and 6-week), placebo-controlled trials of acutely relapsed inpatients who predominantly met DSM-III/IV criteria for schizophrenia. Four of the five trials were able to distinguish aripiprazole tablets from placebo, but one study, the smallest, did not. Three of these studies also included an active control group consisting of either risperidone (one trial) or haloperidol (two trials), but they were not designed to allow for a comparison of aripiprazole and the active comparators. In the four positive trials for aripiprazole, four primary measures were used for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms. Efficacy was evaluated using the total score on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). The PANSS is a 30 item scale that measures positive symptoms of schizophrenia (7 items), negative symptoms of schizophrenia (7 items), and general psychopathology (16 items), each rated on a scale of 1 (absent) to 7 (extreme); total PANSS scores range from 30 to 210. The Clinical Global Impression (CGI) assessment reflects the impression of a skilled observer, fully familiar with the manifestations of schizophrenia, about the overall clinical state of the patient. In a 4-week trial (n=414) comparing two fixed doses of aripiprazole (15 or 30 mg/day) to placebo, both doses of aripiprazole were superior to placebo in the PANSS total score (Study 1 in Table 26), PANSS positive subscale, and CGI-severity score. In addition, the 15 mg dose was superior to placebo in the PANSS negative subscale. In a 4-week trial (n=404) comparing two fixed doses of aripiprazole (20 or 30 mg/day) to placebo, both doses of aripiprazole were superior to placebo in the PANSS total score (Study 2 in Table 26), PANSS positive subscale, PANSS negative subscale, and CGI-severity score. In a 6-week trial (n=420) comparing three fixed doses of aripiprazole (10, 15, or 20 mg/day) to placebo, all three doses of aripiprazole were superior to placebo in the PANSS total score (Study 3 in Table 26), PANSS positive subscale, and the PANSS negative subscale. In a 6-week trial (n=367) comparing three fixed doses of aripiprazole (2, 5, or 10 mg/day) to placebo, the 10 mg dose of aripiprazole was superior to placebo in the PANSS total score (Study 4 in Table 26), the primary outcome measure of the study. The 2 and 5 mg doses did not demonstrate superiority to placebo on the primary outcome measure. Thus, the efficacy of 10, 15, 20, and 30 mg daily doses was established in two studies for each dose. Among these doses, there was no evidence that the higher dose groups offered any advantage over the lowest dose group of these studies. An examination of population subgroups did not reveal any clear evidence of differential responsiveness on the basis of age, gender, or race. A longer-term trial enrolled 310 inpatients or outpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia who were, by history, symptomatically stable on other antipsychotic medications for periods of 3 months or longer. These patients were discontinued from their antipsychotic medications and randomized to aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo for up to 26 weeks of observation for relapse. Relapse during the double-blind phase was defined as CGI-Improvement score of ≥5 (minimally worse), scores ≥5 (moderately severe) on the hostility or uncooperativeness items of the PANSS, or ≥20% increase in the PANSS total score. Patients receiving aripiprazole tablets 15 mg/day experienced a significantly longer time to relapse over the subsequent 26 weeks compared to those receiving placebo (Study 5 in Figure 6). Pediatric Patients The efficacy of aripiprazole in the treatment of schizophrenia in pediatric patients (13 to 17 years of age) was evaluated in one 6-week, placebo-controlled trial of outpatients who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia and had a PANSS score ≥70 at baseline. In this trial (n=302) comparing two fixed doses of aripiprazole (10 or 30 mg/day) to placebo, aripiprazole was titrated starting from 2 mg/day to the target dose in 5 days in the 10 mg/day treatment arm and in 11 days in the 30 mg/day treatment arm. Both doses of aripiprazole were superior to placebo in the PANSS total score (Study 6 in Table 26), the primary outcome measure of the study. The 30 mg/day dosage was not shown to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. Although maintenance efficacy in pediatric patients has not been systematically evaluated, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of aripiprazole pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and pediatric patients. Table 26: Schizophrenia Studies S tudy Number T reatment Group P rimary Efficacy Measure: PANSS m ean Baseline Score (SD) LS M ean Change from Baseline (SE) P lacebo subtracted Difference * (95% CI) Study 1 Aripiprazole Tablets (15 mg/day) † Aripiprazole Tablets (30 mg/day) † Placebo 98.5 (17.2) 99.0 (19.2) 100.2 (16.5) -15.5 (2.40) -11.4 (2.39) -2.9 (2.36) -12.6 (-18.9, -6.2) -8.5 (-14.8, -2.1) -- Study 2 Aripiprazole Tablets (20 mg/day) † Aripiprazole Tablets (30 mg/day) † Placebo 92.6 (19.5) 94.2 (18.5) 94.3 (18.5) -14.5 (2.23) -13.9 (2.24) -5.0 (2.17) -9.6 (-15.4, -3.8) -9.0 (-14.8, -3.1) -- Study 3 Aripiprazole Tablets (10 mg/day) † Aripiprazole Tablets (15 mg/day) † Aripiprazole Tablets (20 mg/day) † Placebo 92.7(19.5) 93.2 (21.6) 92.5 (20.9) 92.3 (21.8) -15.0 (2.38) -11.7 (2.38) -14.4 (2.45) -2.3 (2.35) -12.7 (-19.00, -6.41) -9.4 (-15.71, 3.08) -12.1 (-18.53,5.68) -- Study 4 Aripiprazole Tablets (2 mg/day) Aripiprazole Tablets (5 mg/day) Aripiprazole Tablets (10 mg/day) † Placebo 90.7(14.5) 92.0 (12.6) 90.0 (11.9) 90.8 (13.3) -8.2 (1.90) -10.6 (1.93) -11.3 (1.88) -5.3 (1.97) -2.9 (-8.29, 2.47) -5.2 (-10.7, 0.19) -5.9 (-11.3, -0.58) -- Study 6 (Pediatric, 13-17 Years) Aripiprazole Tablets (10 mg/day) † Aripiprazole Tablets (30 mg/day) † Placebo 93.6 (15.7) 94.0 (16.1) 94.6 (15.6) -26.7 (1.91) -28.6 (1.92) -21.2 (1.93) -5.5 (-10.7, -0.21) -7.4 (-12.7, -2.13) -- SD: standard deviation; SE: standard error; LS Mean: least-squares mean; CI: unadjusted confidence interval. a Difference (drug minus placebo) in least-squares mean change from baseline. † Doses statistically significantly superior to placebo. Figure 6: Kaplan-Meier Estimation of Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Relapse (Schizophrenia Study 5) Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Figure 6 14.2 Bipolar Disorder Maintenance Treatment of Bipolar I Disorder Monotherapy Maintenance Therapy A maintenance trial was conducted in adult patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder with a recent manic or mixed episode who had been stabilized on open-label aripiprazole and who had maintained a clinical response for at least 6 weeks. The first phase of this trial was an open-label stabilization period in which inpatients and outpatients were clinically stabilized and then maintained on open-label aripiprazole (15 or 30 mg/day, with a starting dose of 30 mg/day) for at least 6 consecutive weeks. One hundred sixty-one outpatients were then randomized in a double-blind fashion, to either the same dose of aripiprazole they were on at the end of the stabilization and maintenance period or placebo and were then monitored for manic or depressive relapse. During the randomization phase, aripiprazole was superior to placebo on time to the number of combined affective relapses (manic plus depressive), the primary outcome measure for this study (Study 7 in Figure 7). A total of 55 mood events were observed during the double-blind treatment phase. Nineteen were from the aripiprazole group and 36 were from the placebo group. The number of observed manic episodes in the aripiprazole group (6) were fewer than that in the placebo group (19), while the number of depressive episodes in the aripiprazole group (9) was similar to that in the placebo group (11). An examination of population subgroups did not reveal any clear evidence of differential responsiveness on the basis of age and gender; however, there were insufficient numbers of patients in each of the ethnic groups to adequately assess inter-group differences. Figure 7: Kaplan-Meier Estimation of Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Relapse (Bipolar Study 7) Adjunctive Maintenance Therapy An adjunctive maintenance trial was conducted in adult patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder with a recent manic or mixed episode. Patients were initiated on open-label lithium (0.6 to 1.0 mEq/L) or valproate (50 to 125 μg/mL) at therapeutic serum levels, and remained on stable doses for 2 weeks. At the end of 2 weeks, patients demonstrating inadequate response (Y-MRS total score ≥16 and ≤35% improvement on the Y-MRS total score) to lithium or valproate received aripiprazole with a starting dose of 15 mg/day with the option to increase to 30 mg or reduce to 10 mg as early as day 4, as adjunctive therapy with open-label lithium or valproate. Prior to randomization, patients on the combination of single-blind aripiprazole and lithium or valproate were required to maintain stability (Y-MRS and MADRS total scores ≤12) for 12 consecutive weeks. Three hundred thirty-seven patients were then randomized in a double-blind fashion, to either the same dose of aripiprazole they were on at the end of the stabilization period or placebo plus lithium or valproate and were then monitored for manic, mixed, or depressive relapse for a maximum of 52 weeks. Aripiprazole was superior to placebo on the primary endpoint, time from randomization to relapse to any mood event (Study 8 in Figure 8). A mood event was defined as hospitalization for a manic, mixed, or depressive episode, study discontinuation due to lack of efficacy accompanied by Y-MRS score >16 and/or a MADRS >16, or an SAE of worsening disease accompanied by Y-MRS score >16 and/or a MADRS >16. A total of 68 mood events were observed during the double-blind treatment phase. Twenty-five were from the aripiprazole group and 43 were from the placebo group. The number of observed manic episodes in the aripiprazole group (7) were fewer than that in the placebo group (19), while the number of depressive episodes in the aripiprazole group (14) was similar to that in the placebo group (18). The Kaplan-Meier curves of the time from randomization to relapse to any mood event during the 52-week, double-blind treatment phase for aripiprazole and placebo groups are shown in Figure 8. Figure 8: Kaplan-Meier Estimation of Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Relapse to Any Mood Event (Bipolar Study 8) An examination of population subgroups did not reveal any clear evidence of differential responsiveness on the basis of age and gender; however, there were insufficient numbers of patients in each of the ethnic groups to adequately assess inter-group differences. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Figure 7 Figure 8

SPL TEXT:
Aripiprazole Aripiprazole STARCH, CORN FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW HYPROMELLOSES LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE ARIPIPRAZOLE ARIPIPRAZOLE I;95