DRUG NAME: Pramipexole dihydrochloride
GENERIC NAME: PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE
MANUFACTURER: Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets contain pramipexole dihydrochloride (as a monohydrate). Pramipexole is a non-ergot dopamine agonist. The chemical name of pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate is ( S )-2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-6(propylamino)benzothiazole dihydrochloride monohydrate. Its molecular formula is C 10 H 17 N 3 S · 2HCl · H 2 O, and its molecular weight is 302.26. The structural formula is: Pramipexole dihydrochloride USP is a white to almost white, crystalline powder. It is freely soluble in water, soluble in methanol, slightly soluble in alcohol (99.6%) and practically insoluble in methylene chloride. Melting occurs in the range of 293°C to 306°C, with decomposition. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.375 mg: Each extended-release tablet contains 0.375 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 0.352 mg Pramipexole Dihydrochloride, USP. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.75 mg: Each extended-release tablet contains 0.75 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 0.705 mg Pramipexole Dihydrochloride, USP. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 1.5 mg: Each extended-release tablet contains 1.5 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 1.41 mg Pramipexole Dihydrochloride, USP. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 3 mg: Each extended-release tablet contains 3 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 2.82 mg Pramipexole Dihydrochloride, USP. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 4.5 mg: Each extended-release tablet contains 4.5 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 4.23 mg Pramipexole Dihydrochloride, USP. Inactive ingredients for all strengths of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets consist of carbomer homopolymer, colloidal silicon dioxide, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose and pregelatinized starch.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Pramipexole is a non-ergot dopamine agonist with high relative in vitro specificity and full intrinsic activity at the D 2 subfamily of dopamine receptors, binding with higher affinity to D 3 than to D 2 or D 4 receptor subtypes. The precise mechanism of action of pramipexole as a treatment for Parkinson's disease is unknown, although it is believed to be related to its ability to stimulate dopamine receptors in the striatum. This conclusion is supported by electrophysiologic studies in animals that have demonstrated that pramipexole influences striatal neuronal firing rates via activation of dopamine receptors in the striatum and the substantia nigra, the site of neurons that send projections to the striatum. The relevance of D3 receptor binding in Parkinson’s disease is unknown. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of pramipexole on the QT interval of the ECG was investigated in a clinical study in 60 healthy male and female volunteers. All subjects initiated treatment with 0.375 mg pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets administered once daily, and were up-titrated every 3 days to 2.25 mg and 4.5 mg daily, a faster rate of titration than recommended in the label. No dose- or exposure-related effect on mean QT intervals was observed; however the study did not have a valid assessment of assay sensitivity. The effect of pramipexole on QTc intervals at higher exposures achieved either due to drug interactions (e.g., with cimetidine), renal impairment, or at higher doses has not been systematically evaluated. Although mean values remained within normal reference ranges throughout the study, supine systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and pulse rate for subjects treated with pramipexole generally increased during the rapid up-titration phase, by 10 mmHg, 7 mmHg, and 10 bpm higher than placebo, respectively. Higher SBP, DBP, and pulse rates compared to placebo were maintained until the pramipexole doses were tapered; values on the last day of tapering were generally similar to baseline values. Such effects have not been observed in clinical studies with Parkinson’s disease patients, who were titrated according to labeled recommendations. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Pramipexole extended-release tablets, like immediate-release pramipexole tablets, display linear pharmacokinetics over the entire clinical dosage range. Slow release of pramipexole from pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets with once-daily administration results in the same daily maximum and minimum pramipexole plasma concentrations (C max , C min ) as three times daily administration of immediate-release pramipexole tablets. Absorption The absolute bioavailability of pramipexole is greater than 90%, indicating that it is well absorbed and undergoes little presystemic metabolism. Increase in systemic exposure of pramipexole following oral administration of 0.375 mg to 4.5 mg of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets was dose-proportional. For pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, steady state of exposure is reached within 5 days of continuous dosing. Relative bioavailability of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets compared with immediate-release tablets was approximately 100%. In a repeat-dose study in healthy, normal volunteers, pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets 4.5 mg administered once daily was bioequivalent with regard to C max and AUC over 24 hours to immediate-release pramipexole tablets 1.5 mg administered three times daily. The average time-to-peak concentration for pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets is 6 hours. Administration of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets with food (i.e., high-fat meal) did not affect AUC but increased C max by approximately 20% and delayed T max by approximately 2 hours compared with dosing under fasted conditions; these differences are not considered to be clinically relevant [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Distribution Pramipexole is extensively distributed, having a volume of distribution of about 500 L (coefficient of variation [CV] = 20%). It is about 15% bound to plasma proteins. Pramipexole distributes into red blood cells as indicated by an erythrocyte-to-plasma ratio of approximately 2. Metabolism Pramipexole is metabolized only to a negligible extent (<10%). No specific active metabolite has been identified in human plasma or urine. Elimination Urinary excretion is the major route of pramipexole elimination, with 90% of a pramipexole dose recovered in urine, almost all as unchanged drug. The renal clearance of pramipexole is approximately 400 mL/min (CV=25%), approximately three times higher than the glomerular filtration rate. Thus, pramipexole is secreted by the renal tubules, probably by the organic cation transport system. Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations Because therapy with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets is initiated at a low dose and gradually titrated upward according to clinical tolerability to obtain the optimum therapeutic effect, adjustment of the initial dose based on gender, weight, race, or age is not necessary. However, renal insufficiency causes a large decrease in the ability to eliminate pramipexole. This will necessitate dosage adjustment in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Gender Pramipexole clearance is about 30% lower in women than in men, but this difference can be accounted for by differences in body weight. There is no difference in plasma half-life between males and females. Age Pramipexole clearance is reduced by approximately 30% in the elderly (aged 65 years or older) compared with young, healthy volunteers (aged less than 40 years). This difference is most likely due to the reduction in renal function with age, since pramipexole clearance is correlated with renal function, as measured by creatinine clearance. Race No racial differences in metabolism and elimination have been identified. Hepatic Impairment The influence of hepatic insufficiency on pramipexole pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated. Because approximately 90% of the recovered dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug, hepatic impairment would not be expected to have a significant effect on pramipexole elimination. Renal Impairment Clearance of immediate-release pramipexole was about 75% lower in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance approximately 20 mL/min) and about 60% lower in patients with moderate impairment (creatinine clearance approximately 40 mL/min) compared with healthy volunteers [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. In patients with varying degrees of renal impairment, pramipexole clearance correlates well with creatinine clearance. Therefore, creatinine clearance can be used as a predictor of the extent of decrease in pramipexole clearance. Drug Interactions No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction trials were conducted with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets since the potential for drug interactions mainly depends on the active drug substance pramipexole and not the formulation. The following interaction data were obtained using immediate-release pramipexole tablets. Carbidopa/levodopa: Carbidopa/levodopa did not influence the pharmacokinetics of pramipexole in healthy volunteers (N=10). Pramipexole did not alter the extent of absorption (AUC) or the elimination of carbidopa/levodopa, although it caused an increase in levodopa C max by about 40% and a decrease in T max from 2.5 to 0.5 hours. Selegiline: In healthy volunteers (N=11), selegiline did not influence the pharmacokinetics of pramipexole. Amantadine: Population pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that amantadine may slightly decrease the oral clearance of pramipexole. Cimetidine: Cimetidine, a known inhibitor of renal tubular secretion of organic bases via the cationic transport system, caused a 50% increase in pramipexole AUC and a 40% increase in half-life (N=12). Probenecid: Probenecid, a known inhibitor of renal tubular secretion of organic acids via the anionic transporter, did not noticeably influence pramipexole pharmacokinetics (N=12). Other drugs eliminated via renal secretion: Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that co-administration of drugs that are secreted by the cationic transport system (e.g., cimetidine, ranitidine, diltiazem, triamterene, verapamil, quinidine, and quinine) decreases the oral clearance of pramipexole by about 20%, while those secreted by the anionic transport system (e.g., cephalosporins, penicillins, indomethacin, hydrochlorothiazide, and chlorpropamide) are likely to have little effect on the oral clearance of pramipexole. Other known organic cation transport substrates and/or inhibitors (e.g., cisplatin and procainamide) may also decrease the clearance of pramipexole. CYP interactions: Inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes would not be expected to affect pramipexole elimination because pramipexole is not appreciably metabolized by these enzymes in vivo or in vitro. Pramipexole does not inhibit CYP enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4. Inhibition of CYP2D6 was observed with an apparent Ki of 30 μM, indicating that pramipexole will not inhibit CYP enzymes at plasma concentrations observed following the clinical dose of 4.5 mg/day. D rugs affecting gastrointestinal motility or gastric pH: Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that co-administration of antacids (N=6) decreased the oral clearance of pramipexole by about 25%, while H2-blockers (N=5), anticholinergics (N=27), propulsive (N=7), and proton pump inhibitors (N=16) are likely to have little effect on the oral clearance of pramipexole.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Pramipexole is a non-ergot dopamine agonist with high relative in vitro specificity and full intrinsic activity at the D 2 subfamily of dopamine receptors, binding with higher affinity to D 3 than to D 2 or D 4 receptor subtypes. The precise mechanism of action of pramipexole as a treatment for Parkinson's disease is unknown, although it is believed to be related to its ability to stimulate dopamine receptors in the striatum. This conclusion is supported by electrophysiologic studies in animals that have demonstrated that pramipexole influences striatal neuronal firing rates via activation of dopamine receptors in the striatum and the substantia nigra, the site of neurons that send projections to the striatum. The relevance of D3 receptor binding in Parkinson’s disease is unknown.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablet is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None (4)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food (2.1) Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided (2.1) Starting dose is 0.375 mg given once daily (2.2) Dose may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. Assess therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment. (2.2) Patients may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets at the same daily dose. Dose adjustment may be needed in some patients (2.3) Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually. (2.2) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. If a significant interruption in therapy with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets has occurred, re-titration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The starting dose is 0.375 mg given once per day. Based on efficacy and tolerability, dosages may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. In clinical trials, dosage was initiated at 0.375 mg/day and gradually titrated based on individual therapeutic response and tolerability. Doses greater than 4.5 mg/day have not been studied in clinical trials. Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment [see Clinical Studies ( 14) ]. Due to the flexible dose design used in clinical trials, specific dose-response information could not be determined [see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets may be tapered off at a rate of 0.75 mg per day until the daily dose has been reduced to 0.75 mg. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.11 )]. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment: In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 30 and 50 mL/min), pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should initially be taken every other day. Caution should be exercised and careful assessment of therapeutic response and tolerability should be made before increasing to daily dosing after one week, and before any additional titration in 0.375 mg increments up to 2.25 mg per day. Dose adjustment should occur no more frequently than at weekly intervals. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or patients on hemodialysis, and are not recommended in these patients. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Pramipexole Tablets to Extended-Release Pramipexole Tablets Patients with Parkinson’s disease may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets at the same daily dose. When switching between immediate-release pramipexole tablets and extended-release pramipexole tablets, patients should be monitored to determine if dosage adjustment is necessary.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Symptomatic Orthostatic Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Hallucinations and Psychotic-like Behavior [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Postural Deformity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Retinal Pathology [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Events Reported with Dopaminergic Therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Withdrawal Symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥5% and greater than placebo) : Early PD without levodopa: somnolence, nausea, constipation, dizziness, fatigue, hallucinations, dry mouth, muscle spasms, and peripheral edema (6.1) Advanced PD with levodopa: dyskinesia, nausea, constipation, hallucinations, headache, and anorexia (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug (or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During the premarketing development of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, patients with early Parkinson's disease were treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, placebo, or immediate-release pramipexole tablets. In addition, a randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial was conducted in 156 early Parkinson’s disease patients (Hoehn & Yahr Stages I-III) to assess overnight switching of immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets. In this latter study, concomitant treatment with stable doses of levodopa, monoamine oxidase B inhibitor (MAOB-I) drugs, anticholinergics, or amantadine, individually or in combination, was allowed. In a third trial, advanced Parkinson’s disease patients received pramipexole extended-release tablets, placebo, or immediate-release pramipexole tablets as adjunctive therapy to levodopa. Early Parkinson's Disease The most common adverse reactions (≥5% and more frequent than placebo) after 33 weeks of treatment with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in the trial of early Parkinson’s disease patients were somnolence, nausea, constipation, dizziness, fatigue, hallucinations, dry mouth, muscle spasms, and peripheral edema. Twenty four of 223 (11%) patients treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets for 33 weeks discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared to 4 of 103 (4%) patients who received placebo and approximately 20 of 213 (9%) patients who received immediate-release pramipexole tablets. The adverse reaction most commonly causing discontinuation of treatment with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets was nausea (2%). Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of at least 2% with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release and were more frequent than with placebo during 33 weeks of treatment in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in early Parkinson's disease. In this study, patients did not receive concomitant levodopa; however, levodopa was permitted as rescue medication. Table 1 Adverse-Reactions in a 33-Week Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial with Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Extended-Release in Early Parkinson’s Disease Body System / Adverse Reaction Placebo Extended-Release Pramipexole Immediate Release Pramipexole (n=103) (n=223) (n=213) % % % Nervous system disorders Somnolence 15 36 33 Dizziness 7 12 12 Tremor 1 3 3 Balance disorder 1 2 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 9 22 24 Constipation 2 14 12 Dry mouth 1 5 4 Vomiting 0 4 4 Upper abdominal pain 1 3 4 Dyspepsia 2 3 3 Abdominal discomfort 0 2 1 Psychiatric disorders Hallucinations, including visual, auditory and mixed 1 5 6 Insomnia 3 4 4 Sleep attacks or sudden onset of sleep 1 3 6 Sleep disorder 1 2 3 Depression 0 2 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 4 6 6 Peripheral edema 4 5 8 Asthenia 2 3 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscle spasms 3 5 3 Injury, poisoning and procedural complications Fall 1 4 4 Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo 1 4 2 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 3 3 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Increased appetite 1 3 2 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 3 0 Because this study used a flexible dose titration design, it was not possible to assess the effects of dose on the incidence of adverse reactions. Adverse reactions can initially occur in either the titration or maintenance phase. Some adverse reactions developed in pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release-treated patients during the titration phase and persisted (≥7 days) into the maintenance phase (i.e., pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release % - placebo % = treatment difference ≥2%); persistent adverse reactions were somnolence, nausea, constipation, fatigue, and dry mouth. A double-blind, randomized, parallel group trial evaluated the tolerability of an overnight switch from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets at the same daily dose in 156 early Parkinson’s disease patients with or without levodopa. One of 104 patients switched from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets discontinued due to adverse reactions (vertigo and nausea). Advanced Parkinson's Disease The most common adverse reactions (≥5% and greater frequency than in placebo) during 18 weeks of treatment with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in the trial of advanced Parkinson’s disease patients with concomitant levodopa were dyskinesia, nausea, constipation, hallucinations, headache, and anorexia. Eight of 164 (5%) patients treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets for 18 weeks discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared to 7 of 178 (4%) patients who received placebo and 8 of 175 (5%) patients who received immediate-release pramipexole tablets. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of treatment with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets were nausea (1%) and hallucination (1%). Table 2 lists adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of at least 2% with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release and were more frequent than with placebo during 18 weeks of treatment in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets. In this study, pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, immediate-release pramipexole tablets, or placebo was administered to patients who were also receiving concomitant levodopa. Table 2 Adverse-Reactions in an 18-Week Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial with Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Extended-Release in Advanced Parkinson’s Disease Body System/Adverse Reaction Placebo Extended-Release Pramipexole Immediate-Release Pramipexole n = 178 n = 164 n = 175 % % % Nervous system disorders Dyskinesia 8 17 18 Headache 3 7 4 Dizziness (postural) 1 2 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 10 11 11 Constipation 5 7 6 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 0 Diarrhea 1 2 1 Psychiatric disorders Hallucinations, including visual, auditory and mixed 2 9 7 Insomnia 2 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Anorexia 2 5 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 2 3 Because this flexible dose study used a titration design, it was not possible to assess the effects of dose on the incidence of adverse reactions. Adverse reactions can initially occur in either the titration or maintenance phase. Some adverse reactions developed in pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release-treated patients during the titration phase and persisted (≥7 days) into the maintenance phase (i.e., pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release % - placebo % = treatment difference ≥2%); persistent adverse reactions were dyskinesia and insomnia. Laboratory Testing During the development of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, no systematic abnormalities on routine laboratory testing were noted. Other adverse reactions observed during clinical trials of pramipexole dihydrochloride immediate-release tablets or pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets inearly and advanced Parkinson’s disease Other adverse reactions in clinical studies involving pramipexole dihydrochloride immediate-release tablets or pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets include abnormal dreams, akathisia, amnesia, decreased libido, decreased weight, dyspnea, pneumonia, and vision abnormalities. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of pramipexole dihydrochloride immediate-release tablets or pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, primarily in Parkinson’s diseasepatients. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Decisions to include these reactions in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors: (1) seriousness of thereaction, (2) frequency of reporting, or (3) strength of causal connection to pramipexole tablets. Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: withdrawal symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), weight increase Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: postural deformity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Nervous System Disorders: syncope Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: priapism Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: skin reactions (including erythema, rash, pruritus, urticaria) There are postmarketing reports of patients noticing tablet residue in their stool that resembles a swollen pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release whole tablet or swollen pieces of the tablet. Some patients have reported worsening of their Parkinson’s disease symptoms when tablet residue was observed. If a patient reports tablet residue with worsening of their Parkinson’s symptoms, prescribers may need to re-evaluate their medications.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole (7.1). 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release in pregnant women. No adverse developmental effects were observed in animal studies in which pramipexole was administered to rabbits during pregnancy. Effects on embryofetal development could not be adequately assessed in pregnant rats; however, postnatal growth was inhibited at clinically relevant exposures [see Data]. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. Data Animal Data Oral administration of pramipexole (0.1, 0.5, or 1.5 mg/kg/day) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in a high incidence of total resorption of embryos at the highest dose tested. This increase in embryolethality is thought to result from the prolactin-lowering effect of pramipexole; prolactin is necessary for implantation and maintenance of early pregnancy in rats but not in rabbits or humans. Because of pregnancy disruption and early embryonic loss in this study, the teratogenic potential of pramipexole could not be adequately assessed in rats. The highest no-effect dose for embryolethality in rats was associated with maternal plasma drug exposures (AUC) approximately equal to those in humans receiving the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 4.5 mg/day. There were no adverse effects on embryo-fetal development following oral administration of pramipexole (0.1, 1, or 10 mg/kg/day) to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis (plasma AUC up to approximately 70 times that in humans at the MRHD). Postnatal growth was inhibited in the offspring of rats treated with pramipexole (0.1, 0.5, or 1.5 mg/kg/day) during the latter part of pregnancy and throughout lactation. The no-effect dose for adverse effects on offspring growth (0.1 mg/kg/day) was associated with maternal plasma drug exposures lower than that in humans at the MRHD.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of pramipexole in human milk, the effects of pramipexole on the breastfed infant, or the effects of pramipexole on milk production. However, inhibition of lactation is expected because pramipexole inhibits secretion of prolactin in humans. Pramipexole or metabolites, or both, are present in rat milk [see Data]. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release or from the underlying maternal condition. Data In a study of radio-labeled pramipexole, pramipexole or metabolites, or both, were present in rat milk at concentrations three to six times higher than those in maternal plasma.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in pediatric patients have not been evaluated.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Pramipexole total oral clearance is approximately 30% lower in subjects older than 65 years compared with younger subjects, because of a decline in pramipexole renal clearance due to an age-related reduction in renal function. This resulted in an increase in elimination half-life from approximately 8.5 hours to 12 hours. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in early Parkinson’s disease, 47% of the 259 patients were ≥65 years of age. Among patients receiving pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, hallucinations were more common in the elderly, occurring in 13% of the patients ≥ 65 years of age compared to 2% of the patients <65 years of age.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no clinical experience with significant overdosage. One patient took 11 mg/day of pramipexole for 2 days in a clinical trial for an investigational use. Blood pressure remained stable, although pulse rate increased to between 100 and 120 beats/minute. No other adverse reactions were reported related to the increased dose. There is no known antidote for overdosage of a dopamine agonist. If signs of central nervous system stimulation are present, a phenothiazine or other butyrophenone neuroleptic agent may be indicated; the efficacy of such drugs in reversing the effects of overdosage has not been assessed. Management of overdose may require general supportive measures along with gastric lavage, intravenous fluids, and electrocardiogram monitoring.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease was supported by clinical pharmacokinetic data [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] and two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trials in early and advanced Parkinson’s disease. In both randomized studies, the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) served as a primary outcome assessment measure. The UPDRS is a four-part multi-item rating scale intended to evaluate mentation (Part I), activities of daily living (Part II), motor performance (Part III), and complications of therapy (Part IV). Part II of the UPDRS contains 13 questions related to activities of daily living, which are scored from 0 (normal) to 4 (maximal severity) for a maximum (worst) score of 52. Part III of the UPDRS contains 14 items designed to assess the severity of the cardinal motor findings in patients with Parkinson’s disease (e.g., tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, postural instability, etc.), scored for different body regions and has a maximum (worst) score of 108. Early Parkinson’s Disease The effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in early Parkinson's disease patients (Hoehn & Yahr Stages I-III) who were not on levodopa therapy was established in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-parallel-group clinical study. Patients were treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, immediate-release pramipexole tablets, or placebo; those treated with pramipexole extended-release tablets or immediate-release pramipexole tablets had a starting dose of 0.375 mg/day followed by a flexible up-titration, based on efficacy and tolerability, up to 4.5 mg/day. Levodopa was permitted during the study as rescue medication. Stable doses of concomitant MAO-B inhibitors, anticholinergics, or amantadine, individually or in combination, were allowed. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change from baseline in the UPDRS Parts II+III score for pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets versus placebo following 18 weeks of treatment. At 18 weeks of treatment, the mean change from baseline UPDRS Parts II+III score was –8.1 points in patients receiving pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (n=102) and –5.1 points in patients receiving placebo (n=50), a difference that was statistically significant (p<0.03). Seven patients treated with placebo (14%) and 3 patients treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (3%) received levodopa rescue medication. At 18 weeks, the mean dose of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release was 3 mg/day. At 33-weeks the adjusted mean improvement from baseline UPDRS Parts II+III score was –8.6 points in patients receiving pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (n=213), compared to –3.8 points in patients receiving placebo (n=103). At 18 and 33 weeks, the mean dose of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets was approximately 3 mg/day. Twenty-two patients treated with placebo (21%) and 15 patients treated with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (7%) received levodopa rescue medication before the final assessment No differences in effectiveness based on age or gender were detected. Patients receiving MAOB-I, anticholinergics, or amantadine had responses similar to patients not receiving these drugs. Advanced Parkinson’s Disease The effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets in advanced Parkinson's disease patients (Hoehn & Yahr Stages II-IV at "on" time) who were on concomitant levodopa therapy (at an optimized dose) and who had motor fluctuations (at least 2 cumulative hours of "off" time per day) was established in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-parallel-group clinical study. Patients were treated with pramipexole extended-release tablets, immediate-release pramipexole tablets, or placebo; those treated with pramipexole extended-release tablets or immediate-release pramipexole tablets had a starting dose of 0.375 mg/day followed by a flexible up-titration over 7 weeks, based on efficacy and tolerability, up to 4.5 mg/day, followed by a 26 week maintenance period. Levodopa dosage reduction was permitted only in the case of dopaminergic adverse events. The primary efficacy endpoint was the adjusted mean change from baseline in the UPDRS Parts II+III score for pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets versus placebo following 18 weeks of treatment. At 18 weeks of treatment, the adjusted mean improvement from baseline UPDRS Parts II+III score was – 11 points in patients receiving pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (n=161) and – 6.1 points in patients receiving placebo (n=174), (p=0.0001). At week 18, the adjusted mean improvement from baseline in “off" time was -2.1 hours for pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release and -1.4 hours for placebo (p=0.0199). At 33-weeks the adjusted mean improvement from baseline UPDRS Parts II+III score was –11.1 points in patients receiving pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets (n=117) and –6.8 points in patients receiving placebo (n=136) (p=0.0135). At both 18 and 33 weeks the mean daily dose of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release was 2.6 mg/day. At week 18, 4 patients (3%) in the placebo group and 14 patients (11%) in the pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets group had decreased their levodopa daily dose compared to baseline due to dopaminergic adverse events. No clinically relevant difference in effectiveness was observed in the sub-group analyses based on gender, age, race (White vs. Asian), or concomitant use of antiparkinsonian treatment (MAOB-I, amantadine or anticholinergics).

SPL TEXT:
Pramipexole dihydrochloride Pramipexole dihydrochloride PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE PRAMIPEXOLE SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSES MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE STARCH, PREGELATINIZED CORN CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE A RDY;611 Pramipexole dihydrochloride Pramipexole dihydrochloride PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE PRAMIPEXOLE SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSES MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE A STARCH, PREGELATINIZED CORN RDY;612 Pramipexole dihydrochloride Pramipexole dihydrochloride PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE PRAMIPEXOLE SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSES MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE A STARCH, PREGELATINIZED CORN RDY;613 Pramipexole dihydrochloride Pramipexole dihydrochloride PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE PRAMIPEXOLE SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSES MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE STARCH, PREGELATINIZED CORN CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE A RDY;614 Pramipexole dihydrochloride Pramipexole dihydrochloride PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE PRAMIPEXOLE SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSES MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE A STARCH, PREGELATINIZED CORN RDY;615 structure container1 container2 container3 container4 container5