DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Calcium Acetate Capsules acts as a phosphate binder. Its chemical name is calcium acetate. Its molecular formula is C 4 H 6 CaO 4 , and its molecular weight is 158.17. Its structural formula is: Each capsule for oral administration contains 667 mg of calcium acetate, USP (anhydrous; Ca(CH 3 COO) 2 ; MW=158.17 grams) equivalent to 169 mg (8.45 mEq) of calcium and and the inactive ingredients magnesium stearate and polyethylene glycol. The capsules are size 00EL with light green opaque cap and white opaque body with black imprint on cap “NC” above “667”. The gelatin capsules contain D&C Yellow #10, FD&C Blue #1, FD&C Red # 40, titanium dioxide and gelatin The imprinting ink contains the following: black iron oxide, D&C Yellow # 10 Aluminium Lake, FD&C Blue #1/ Brilliant Blue FCF Aluminum Lake, FD&C Blue #2/ Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake, FD&C Red # 40/ Allura Red AC Aluminum Lake, propylene glycol and shellac glaze.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Patients with ESRD retain phosphorus and can develop hyperphosphatemia. High serum phosphorus can precipitate serum calcium resulting in ectopic calcification. Hyperphosphatemia also plays a role in the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with ESRD. 12.1 MECHANISM OF ACTION Calcium acetate, (Calcium Acetate Capsules) when taken with meals, combines with dietary phosphate to form an insoluble calcium phosphate complex, which is excreted in the feces, resulting in decreased serum phosphorus concentration. 12.2 PHARMACODYNAMICS Orally administered calcium acetate from pharmaceutical dosage forms is systemically absorbed up to approximately 40% under fasting conditions and up to approximately 30% under non-fasting conditions. This range represents data from both healthy subjects and renal dialysis patients under various conditions.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 MECHANISM OF ACTION Calcium acetate, (Calcium Acetate Capsules) when taken with meals, combines with dietary phosphate to form an insoluble calcium phosphate complex, which is excreted in the feces, resulting in decreased serum phosphorus concentration.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Calcium Acetate Capsules are a phosphate binder indicated to reduce serum phosphorus in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD). Calcium Acetate Capsules are a phosphate binder indicated for the reduction of serum phosphorus in patients with end stage renal disease. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of Calcium Acetate Capsules for the adult dialysis patient is 2 capsules with each meal. Increase the dose gradually to lower serum phosphorus levels to the target range, as long as hypercalcemia does not develop. Most patients require 3-4 capsules with each meal. Starting dose is 2 capsules with each meal. ( 2 ) Titrate the dose every 2-3 weeks until acceptable serum phosphorus level is reached. Most patients require 3-4 capsules with each meal. ( 2 )

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypercalcemia is discussed elsewhere [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . The most common (>10%) adverse reactions are hypercalcemia, nausea, and vomiting. ( 6.1 ). In clinical studies, patients have occasionally experienced nausea during calcium acetate therapy. ( 6 ). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Nostrum Laboratories Inc. at quality@nostrumpharma.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical studies, calcium acetate has been generally well tolerated. Calcium Acetate Capsules were studied in a 3-month, open-label, non-randomized study of 98 enrolled ESRD hemodialysis patients and in a two week double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study with 69 enrolled ESRD hemodialysis patients. Adverse reactions (>2% on treatment) from these trials are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease Undergoing Hemodialysis Preferred Term Total adverse reactions reported for calcium acetate n = 167 n (%) 3-mo, open-label study of calcium acetate n = 98 n (%) Double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study of calcium acetate n = 69 Calcium acetate n (%) Placebo n (%) Nausea 6 (3.6) 6 (6.1) 0 (0.0) 0 (0.0) Vomiting 4 (2.4) 4 (4.1) 0 (0.0) 0 (0.0) Hypercalcemia 21 (12.6) 16 (16.3) 5 (7.2) 0 (0.0) Mild hypercalcemia may be asymptomatic or manifest itself as constipation, anorexia, neusea, and vomiting. More severe hypercalcemia is associated with confusion, delirium, stupor, and coma. Decreasing dialysate calcium concentration could reduce the incidence and severity of Calcium Acetate Capsules induced hypercalcemia. Isolated cases of pruritus have been reported, which may represent allergic reactions. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval of calcium acetate: dizziness, edema, and weakness.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The drug interaction of Calcium Acetate Capsules is characterized by the potential of calcium to bind to drugs with anionic functions (e.g., carboxyl and hydroxyl groups). Calcium Acetate Capsules may decrease the bioavailability of tetracyclines or fluoroquinolones via this mechanism. There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between calcium acetate or Calcium Acetate Capsules and most concomitant drugs. When administering an oral medication with Calcium Acetate Capsules where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, administer the drug one hour before or three hours after Calcium Acetate Capsules or calcium acetate. Monitor blood levels of the concomitant drugs that have a narrow therapeutic range. Patients taking anti-arrhythmic medications for the control of arrhythmias and anti-seizure medications for the control of seizure disorders were excluded from the clinical trials with all forms of calcium acetate. Calcium Acetate Capsules may decrease the bioavailability of tetracyclines or fluoroquinolones. ( 7 ) When clinically significant drug interactions are expected, administer the drug at least one hour before or at least three hours after Calcium Acetate Capsules, or consider monitoring blood levels of the drug. ( 7 ) 7.1 Ciprofloxacin In a study of 15 healthy subjects, a co-administered single dose of 4 calcium acetate tablets approximately 2.7 g, decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50%.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C Calcium Acetate Capsules contains calcium acetate. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Calcium Acetate Capsules, and there are no adequate and well controlled studies of Calcium Acetate Capsules use in pregnant women. Patients with end stage renal disease may develop hypercalcemia with calcium acetate treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Maintenance of normal serum calcium levels is important for maternal and fetal well being. Hypercalcemia during pregnancy may increase the risk for maternal and neonatal complications such as stillbirth, preterm delivery, and neonatal hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism. Calcium Acetate Capsules treatment, as recommended, is not expected to harm a fetus if maternal calcium levels are properly monitored during and following treatment.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 NURSING MOTHERS Calcium Acetate Capsules contains calcium acetate and is excreted in human milk. Human milk feeding by a mother receiving Calcium Acetate Capsules is not expected to harm an infant, provided maternal serum calcium levels are appropriately monitored.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of calcium acetate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Administration of Calcium Acetate Capsules in excess of the appropriate daily dosage may result in hypercalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] .

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Effectiveness of calcium acetate in decreasing serum phosphorus has been demonstrated in two studies of the calcium acetate solid oral dosage form. Ninety-one patients with end-stage renal disease who were undergoing hemodialysis and were hyperphosphatemic (serum phosphorus >5.5 mg/dL) following a 1-week phosphate binder washout period contributed efficacy data to an open-label, non-randomized study. The patients received calcium acetate 667 mg tablets at each meal for a period of 12 weeks. The initial starting dose was 2 tablets per meal for 3 meals a day, and the dose was adjusted as necessary to control serum phosphorus levels. The average final dose after 12 weeks of treatment was 3.4 tablets per meal. Although there was a decrease in serum phosphorus, in the absence of a control group the true magnitude of effect is uncertain. The data presented in Table 2 demonstrate the efficacy of calcium acetate in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in end-stage renal disease patients. The effects on serum calcium levels are also presented. Table 2: Average Serum Phosphorous and Calcium Levels at Pre-Study, Interim, and Study Completion Time points Parameter Pre-Study Week 4 b Week 8 Week 12 p-value c a Values expressed as mean ± SE. b Ninety-one patients completed at least 6 weeks of the study. c ANOVA of difference in values at pre-study and study completion. Phosphorus (mg/dL) a 7.4 ± 0.17 5.9 ± 0.16 5.6 ± 0.17 5.2 ± 0.17 ≤0.01 Calcium (mg/dL) a 8.9 ± 0.09 9.5 ± 0.10 9.7 ± 0.10 9.7 ± 0.10 ≤0.01 There was a 30% decrease in serum phosphorus levels during the 12 week study period (p<0.01). Two-thirds of the decline occurred in the first month of the study. Serum calcium increased 9% during the study mostly in the first month of the study. Treatment with the phosphate binder was discontinued for patients from the open-label study, and those patients whose serum phosphorus exceeded 5.5 mg/dL were eligible for entry into a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. Patients were randomized to receive calcium acetate or placebo, and each continued to receive the same number of tablets as had been individually established during the previous study. Following 2 weeks of treatment, patients switched to the alternative therapy for an additional 2 weeks. The phosphate binding effect of calcium acetate is shown in the Table 3. Table 3: Serum Phosphorus and Calcium Levels at Study Initiation and After Completion of Each Treatment Arm Parameter Pre-Study Post-Treatment p-value b Calcium Acetate Placebo a Values expressed as mean ± SE. b ANOVA of calcium acetate vs. placebo after 2 weeks of treatment. Phosphorus (mg/dL) a 7.3 ± 0.18 5.9 ± 0.24 7.8 ± 0.22 <0.01 Calcium (mg/dL) a 8.9 ± 0.11 9.5 ± 0.13 8.8 ± 0.12 <0.01 Overall, 2 weeks of treatment with calcium acetate statistically significantally (p<0.01) decreased serum phosphorus by a mean of 19% and increased serum calcium by a statistically significant (p<0.01) but clinically unimportant mean of 7%.

SPL TEXT:
Calcium Acetate Calcium Acetate D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C RED NO. 40 GELATIN MAGNESIUM STEARATE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE CALCIUM ACETATE CALCIUM CATION NC;667mg