DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
Diclofenac sodium topical solution 2% topical solution, contains diclofenac sodium, a benzeneacetic acid derivative that is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and is available as a clear, colorless to faintly pink or orange solution for topical application. The chemical name is 2[(2,6-dichlorophenyl)amino]-benzeneacetic acid, monosodium salt. The molecular weight is 318.14. Its molecular formula is C14H10Cl2NNaO2, and it has the following chemical structure. [diclofenac structure] Each 1 gram of solution contains 20 mg of diclofenac sodium. The inactive ingredients: dimethyl sulfoxide USP (DMSO, 45.5% w/w), ethanol, purified water, propylene glycol, and hydroxypropyl cellulose.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Diclofenac has analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. The mechanism of action of diclofenac sodium topical solution, like that of other NSAIDs, is not completely understood but involves inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2). Diclofenac is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis in vitro. Diclofenac concentrations reached during therapy have produced in vivo effects. Prostaglandins sensitize afferent nerves and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain in animal models. Prostaglandins are mediators of inflammation. Because diclofenac is an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, its mode of action may be due to a decrease of prostaglandins in peripheral tissues. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption: After administration of diclofenac sodium topical solution topical solution (40 mg/knee every 12 h; total daily diclofenac exposure: 80 mg/knee) for 7.5 days, the mean (SD) AUC0-12 and mean (SD) Cmax were 77.27 (49.89) ng∙h/mL and 12.16 (7.66) ng/mL, respectively, on Day 1; and 204.58 (111.02) ng∙h/mL and 25.24 (12.95) ng/mL, respectively, at steady state on Day 8. After administration of diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% topical solution (19.3 mg/knee every 6 h; total daily diclofenac exposure 77.2 mg/knee), the mean (SD) AUC0-12 and mean (SD) Cmax were 27.46 (23.97) ng∙h/mL and 2.30 (2.02) ng/mL, respectively, on Day 1; and 141.49 (92.47) ng∙h/mL and 17.04 (11.28) ng/mL, respectively, at steady state on Day 8. The pharmacokinetics and effect of diclofenac sodium topical solution were not evaluated under the conditions of heat application, occlusive dressings overlay, or exercise following product application. Therefore, concurrent use of diclofenac sodium topical solution under these conditions is not recommended. Distribution: Diclofenac is more than 99% bound to human serum proteins, primarily to albumin. Diclofenac diffuses into and out of the synovial fluid. Diffusion into the joint occurs when plasma levels are higher than those in the synovial fluid, after which the process reverses and synovial fluid levels are higher than plasma levels. It is not known whether diffusion into the joint plays a role in the effectiveness of diclofenac. Elimination Metabolism: Five diclofenac metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine. The metabolites include 4'-hydroxy-, 5-hydroxy-, 3'-hydroxy-, 4',5-dihydroxy- and 3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxy diclofenac. The major diclofenac metabolite, 4'-hydroxy-diclofenac, has very weak pharmacologic activity. The formation of 4'-hydroxy diclofenac is primarily mediated by CYP2C9. Both diclofenac and its oxidative metabolites undergo glucuronidation or sulfation followed by biliary excretion. Acylglucuronidation mediated by UGT2B7 and oxidation mediated by CYP2C8 may also play a role in diclofenac metabolism. CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of minor metabolites, 5-hydroxy and 3'-hydroxy-diclofenac. Excretion: Diclofenac is eliminated through metabolism and subsequent urinary and biliary excretion of the glucuronide and the sulfate conjugates of the metabolites. Little or no free unchanged diclofenac is excreted in the urine. Specific Populations: Pediatric: The pharmacokinetics of diclofenac sodium topical solution has not been investigated in pediatric patients. Race: Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied. Drug Interaction Studies Aspirin: When NSAIDs were administered with aspirin, the protein binding of NSAIDs were reduced, although the clearance of free NSAID was not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions of NSAIDs with aspirin [see Drug Interactions (7)].

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Diclofenac sodium topical solution is indicated for the treatment of the pain of osteoarthritis of the knee(s).

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.9)] • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.8)] • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events • Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. This risk may occur early in treatment and may increase with duration of use. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. • Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients and patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding are at greater risk for serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2.1 General Dosing Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. For relief of the pain of osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 mg of diclofenac sodium (2 pump actuations) on each painful knee, 2 times a day. Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. The pump must be primed before first use. Instruct patients to fully depress the pump mechanism (actuation) 4 times while holding the bottle in an upright position. This portion should be discarded to ensure proper priming of the pump. No further priming of the bottle should be required. After the priming procedure, diclofenac sodium topical solution is properly dispensed by completely depressing the pump 2 times to achieve the prescribed dosage for one knee. Deliver the product directly into the palm of the hand and then apply evenly around front, back, and sides of the knee. Application of diclofenac sodium topical solution in an amount exceeding or less than the recommended dose has not been studied and is therefore not recommended. 2.2 Special Precautions • Avoid showering/bathing for at least 30 minutes after the application of diclofenac sodium topical solution to the treated knee. • Wash and dry hands after use. • Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open wounds. • Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucous membranes. • Do not apply external heat and/or occlusive dressings to treated knees. • Avoid wearing clothing over the diclofenac sodium topical solution-treated knee(s) until the treated knee is dry. • Protect the treated knee(s) from natural and artificial sunlight. • Wait until the treated area is dry before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same knee you have just treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution. • Until the treated knee(s) is completely dry, avoid skin-to-skin contact between other people and the treated knee(s). • Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: • Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] • Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] • Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] • Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] • Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution of 130 patients treated for 4 weeks (mean duration of 28 days) in one Phase 2 controlled trial. This population's mean age was approximately 60 years, 85% of patients were Caucasian, 65% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the study. Application Site Reactions: In this controlled trial, application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness (22%), exfoliation (7%), erythema (4%), pruritus (2%), pain (2%), induration (2%), rash (2%), and scabbing (<1%). Other Common Adverse Reactions: Table 1 lists all adverse reactions occurring in >1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution group exceeded vehicle, from a controlled study conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Table 1: Incidence of Adverse Reactions Occurring in >1% of Subjects with Osteoarthritis Using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution and More Often than in Subjects with OA Using Vehicle Control (Pooled) Adverse Reaction Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution N=130 n (%) Vehicle Control N=129 n (%) Urinary tract infection 4 (3%) 1 (<1%) Application site induration 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Contusion 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Sinus congestion 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Nausea 2 (2%) 0 Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution 1.5% The safety of diclofenac sodium topical solution 2% is based in part, on prior experience with diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5%. The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasian, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application Site Reactions: In controlled trials, application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vesicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% and oral diclofenac. In the open-label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Other Common Adverse Reactions: In controlled trials, subjects treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 2). The combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 2 lists all adverse reactions occurring in ≥1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5%, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 2: Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥1% of Patients Treated with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution 1.5% Topical Solution in Placebo and Oral Diclofenac-Controlled Trials Treatment Group: Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution 1.5% N=911 Topical Placebo N=332 Adverse Reaction N (%) N (%) Dry Skin (Application Site) 292 (32) 17 (5) Contact Dermatitis (Application Site) 83 (9) 6 (2) Dyspepsia 72 (8) 13 (4) Abdominal Pain 54 (6) 10 (3) Flatulence 35 (4) 1 (<1) Pruritus (Application Site) 34 (4) 7 (2) Diarrhea 33 (4) 7 (2) Nausea 33 (4) 3 (1) Pharyngitis 40 (4) 13 (4) Constipation 29 (3) 1 (<1) Edema 26 (3) 0 Rash (Non-Application Site) 25 (3) 5 (2) Infection 25 (3) 8 (2) Ecchymosis 19 (2) 1 (<1) Dry Skin (Non-Application Site) 19 (2) 1 (<1) Contact Dermatitis, vesicles (Application Site) 18 (2) 0 Paresthesia (Non-Application Site) 14 (2) 3 (<1) Accidental Injury 22 (2) 7 (2) Pruritus (Non-Application Site) 15 (2) 2 (<1) Sinusitis 10 (1) 2 (<1) Halitosis 11 (1) 1 (<1) Application Site Reaction (not otherwise specified) 11 (1) 3 (<1) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In postmarketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post- approval use of diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reactions, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, lip swelling, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis, swollen tongue Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis, throat swelling Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: rash, skin burning sensation; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, skin discoloration, urticaria Special Senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion Vascular: blood pressure increased, hypertension

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: • Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have increased the risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. Diclofenac sodium topical solution is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: • During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. • When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration.

OVERDOSAGE:
Symptoms following acute NSAID overdosages have been typically limited to lethargy, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, and epigastric pain, which have been generally reversible with supportive care. Gastrointestinal bleeding has occurred. Hypertension, acute renal failure, respiratory depression, and coma have occurred but were rare [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.4, 5.6)]. Manage patients with symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdosage. There are no specific antidotes. Emesis is not recommended due to a possibility of aspiration and subsequent respiratory irritation by DMSO contained in diclofenac sodium topical solution. Consider activated charcoal (60 to 100 grams in adults, 1 to 2 grams per kg of body weight in pediatric patients) and/or osmotic cathartic in symptomatic patients seen within four hours of ingestion or in patients with a large overdosage (5 to 10 times the recommended dosage). Forced diuresis, alkalinization of urine, hemodialysis, or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding. For additional information about overdosage treatment, contact a poison control center (1-800-222-1222)

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14.1 Study in Osteoarthritis of the Knee Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution The use of diclofenac sodium topical solution for the treatment of pain of osteoarthritis of the knee was evaluated in a single double-blind controlled trial conducted in the US, involving patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution at a dose of 2 pumps twice a day for 4 weeks. Diclofenac sodium topical solution was compared to topical vehicle, applied directly to the study knee. In this trial, patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution experienced a greater reduction in the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) pain subscale compared to patients treated with vehicle. Numerical results of the WOMAC pain subscale are summarized in Table 4. Table 4: Change in Treatment Outcomes after 4 Weeks of Treatment with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution Efficacy Variable Treatment Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution N=130 Vehicle Control N=129 * WOMAC pain subscale is based on the sum of pain scores for five items using a 5-point Likert scale.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature].

SPL TEXT:
Diclofenac Sodium Topical Sol Diclofenac Sodium Topical Sol DIMETHYL SULFOXIDE WATER DICLOFENAC SODIUM DICLOFENAC PROPYLENE GLYCOL ALCOHOL HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW)