DRUG NAME: Divalproex Sodium
GENERIC NAME: DIVALPROEX SODIUM
MANUFACTURER: Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc.
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Divalproex sodium is a stable co-ordination compound comprised of sodium valproate and valproic acid in a 1:1 molar relationship and formed during the partial neutralization of valproic acid with 0.5 equivalent of sodium hydroxide. Chemically it is designated as sodium hydrogen bis(2-propylpentanoate). Divalproex sodium has the following structure: Divalproex sodium, USP occurs as a white to off white powder with a characteristic odor. Divalproex sodium extended-release 250 and 500 mg tablets are for oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, USP contain divalproex sodium in a once-a-day extended-release formulation equivalent to 250 or 500 mg of valproic acid. Inactive Ingredients: ammonium hydroxide, colloidal anhydrous silica, colloidal silicon dioxide, dibutyl sebacate, ethylcellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hypromellose, oleic acid, polydextrose, polyethylene glycol, silicified microcrystalline cellulose, titanium dioxide and triacetin. Meets USP Dissolution Test 3. Each 250 mg divalproex sodium extended-release tablet contains 20 mg of sodium. Each 500 mg divalproex sodium extended-release tablet contains 40 mg of sodium. Divalproex Structural Formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Divalproex sodium dissociates to the valproate ion in the gastrointestinal tract. The mechanisms by which valproate exerts its therapeutic effects have not been established. It has been suggested that its activity in epilepsy is related to increased brain concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). 12.2 Pharmacodynamics The relationship between plasma concentration and clinical response is not well documented. One contributing factor is the nonlinear, concentration dependent protein binding of valproate which affects the clearance of the drug. Thus, monitoring of total serum valproate may not provide a reliable index of the bioactive valproate species. For example, because the plasma protein binding of valproate is concentration dependent, the free fraction increases from approximately 10% at 40 mcg/mL to 18.5% at 130 mcg/mL. Higher than expected free fractions occur in the elderly, in hyperlipidemic patients, and in patients with hepatic and renal diseases. Epilepsy The therapeutic range in epilepsy is commonly considered to be 50 to 100 mcg/mL of total valproate, although some patients may be controlled with lower or higher plasma concentrations. Mania In placebo-controlled clinical trials of acute mania, patients were dosed to clinical response with trough plasma concentrations between 85 and 125 mcg/mL [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption/Bioavailability The absolute bioavailability of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets administered as a single dose after a meal was approximately 90% relative to intravenous infusion. When given in equal total daily doses, the bioavailability of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets is less than that of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets. In five multiple-dose studies in healthy subjects (N = 82) and in subjects with epilepsy (N = 86), when administered under fasting and nonfasting conditions, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets given once daily produced an average bioavailability of 89% relative to an equal total daily dose of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets given BID, TID, or QID. The median time to maximum plasma valproate concentrations (C max ) after divalproex sodium extended-release tablets administration ranged from 4 to 17 hours. After multiple once-daily dosing of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, the peak-to-trough fluctuation in plasma valproate concentrations was 10-20% lower than that of regular divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets given BID, TID, or QID. Conversion from Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets to Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets When divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are given in doses 8 to 20% higher than the total daily dose of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, the two formulations are bioequivalent. In two randomized, crossover studies, multiple daily doses of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets were compared to 8 to 20% higher once daily doses of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. In these two studies, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets and divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets regimens were equivalent with respect to area under the curve (AUC; a measure of the extent of bioavailability). Additionally, valproate C max was lower, and C min was either higher or not different, for divalproex sodium extended-release tablets relative to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets regimens (see Table 8). Table 8. Bioavailability of Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets Relative to Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets When Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets Dose is 8 to 20% Higher Study Population Regimens Relative Bioavailability Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets vs. Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets AUC 24 C max C min Healthy Volunteers (N = 35) 1,000 & 1,500 mg Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets vs. 875 & 1,250 mg Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 1.059 0.882 1.173 Patients with epilepsy on concomitant enzyme- inducing antiepilepsy drugs (N = 64) 1,000 to 5,000 mg Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets vs. 875 to 4,250 mg Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 1.008 0.899 1.022 Concomitant antiepilepsy drugs (topiramate, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, and lamotrigine were evaluated) that induce the cytochrome P450 isozyme system did not significantly alter valproate bioavailability when converting between divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets and divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. Distribution Protein Binding The plasma protein binding of valproate is concentration dependent and the free fraction increases from approximately 10% at 40 mcg/mL to 18.5% at 130 mcg/mL. Protein binding of valproate is reduced in the elderly, in patients with chronic hepatic diseases, in patients with renal impairment, and in the presence of other drugs (e.g., aspirin). Conversely, valproate may displace certain protein-bound drugs (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, warfarin, and tolbutamide) [see Drug Interactions (7.2) for more detailed information on the pharmacokinetic interactions of valproate with other drugs]. CNS Distribution Valproate concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) approximate unbound concentrations in plasma (about 10% of total concentration). Metabolism Valproate is metabolized almost entirely by the liver. In adult patients on monotherapy, 30-50% of an administered dose appears in urine as a glucuronide conjugate. Mitochondrial β-oxidation is the other major metabolic pathway, typically accounting for over 40% of the dose. Usually, less than 15-20% of the dose is eliminated by other oxidative mechanisms. Less than 3% of an administered dose is excreted unchanged in urine. The relationship between dose and total valproate concentration is nonlinear; concentration does not increase proportionally with the dose, but rather, increases to a lesser extent due to saturable plasma protein binding. The kinetics of unbound drug are linear. Elimination Mean plasma clearance and volume of distribution for total valproate are 0.56 L/hr/1.73 m 2 and 11 L/1.73 m 2 , respectively. Mean plasma clearance and volume of distribution for free valproate are 4.6 L/hr/1.73 m 2 and 92 L/1.73 m 2 . Mean terminal half-life for valproate monotherapy ranged from 9 to 16 hours following oral dosing regimens of 250 to 1,000 mg. The estimates cited apply primarily to patients who are not taking drugs that affect hepatic metabolizing enzyme systems. For example, patients taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital) will clear valproate more rapidly. Because of these changes in valproate clearance, monitoring of antiepileptic concentrations should be intensified whenever concomitant antiepileptics are introduced or withdrawn. Specific Populations Effect of Age Pediatric The valproate pharmacokinetic profile following administration of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets was characterized in a multiple-dose, non-fasting, open label, multi-center study in children and adolescents. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets once daily doses ranged from 250-1,750 mg. Once daily administration of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in pediatric patients (10-17 years) produced plasma VPA concentration-time profiles similar to those that have been observed in adults. Elderly The capacity of elderly patients (age range: 68 to 89 years) to eliminate valproate has been shown to be reduced compared to younger adults (age range: 22 to 26 years). Intrinsic clearance is reduced by 39%; the free fraction is increased by 44%. Accordingly, the initial dosage should be reduced in the elderly [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Effect of Sex There are no differences in the body surface area adjusted unbound clearance between males and females (4.8 ± 0.17 and 4.7 ± 0.07 L/hr per 1.73 m 2 , respectively). Effect of Race The effects of race on the kinetics of valproate have not been studied. Effect of Disease Liver Disease Liver disease impairs the capacity to eliminate valproate. In one study, the clearance of free valproate was decreased by 50% in 7 patients with cirrhosis and by 16% in 4 patients with acute hepatitis, compared with 6 healthy subjects. In that study, the half-life of valproate was increased from 12 to 18 hours. Liver disease is also associated with decreased albumin concentrations and larger unbound fractions (2 to 2.6 fold increase) of valproate. Accordingly, monitoring of total concentrations may be misleading since free concentrations may be substantially elevated in patients with hepatic disease whereas total concentrations may appear to be normal [see Boxed Warning , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Renal Disease A slight reduction (27%) in the unbound clearance of valproate has been reported in patients with renal failure (creatinine clearance < 10 mL/minute); however, hemodialysis typically reduces valproate concentrations by about 20%. Therefore, no dosage adjustment appears to be necessary in patients with renal failure. Protein binding in these patients is substantially reduced; thus, monitoring total concentrations may be misleading. Drug Interaction Studies with No Interaction or Likely Clinically Unimportant Interaction Antacids A study involving the co-administration of valproate 500 mg with commonly administered antacids (Maalox ® , Trisogel, and Titralac ™ - 160 mEq doses) did not reveal any effect on the extent of absorption of valproate. Chlorpromazine A study involving the administration of 100 to 300 mg/day of chlorpromazine to schizophrenic patients already receiving valproate (200 mg BID) revealed a 15% increase in trough plasma levels of valproate. Haloperidol A study involving the administration of 6 to 10 mg/day of haloperidol to schizophrenic patients already receiving valproate (200 mg BID) revealed no significant changes in valproate trough plasma levels. Cimetidine and Ranitidine Cimetidine and ranitidine do not affect the clearance of valproate. Acetaminophen Valproate had no effect on any of the pharmacokinetic parameters of acetaminophen when it was concurrently administered to three epileptic patients. Clozapine In psychotic patients (n = 11), no interaction was observed when valproate was co-administered with clozapine. Lithium Co-administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and lithium carbonate (300 mg TID) to normal male volunteers (n = 16) had no effect on the steady-state kinetics of lithium. Lorazepam Concomitant administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and lorazepam (1 mg BID) in normal male volunteers (n = 9) was accompanied by a 17% decrease in the plasma clearance of lorazepam. Olanzapine No dose adjustment for olanzapine is necessary when olanzapine is administered concomitantly with valproate. Co-administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and olanzapine (5 mg) to healthy adults (n = 10) caused 15% reduction in C max and 35% reduction in AUC of olanzapine . Oral Contraceptive Steroids Administration of a single-dose of ethinyloestradiol (50 mcg)/levonorgestrel (250 mcg) to 6 women on valproate (200 mg BID) therapy for 2 months did not reveal any pharmacokinetic interaction.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Divalproex sodium dissociates to the valproate ion in the gastrointestinal tract. The mechanisms by which valproate exerts its therapeutic effects have not been established. It has been suggested that its activity in epilepsy is related to increased brain concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for: • Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features ( 1.1 ) • Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) • Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are a valproate and are indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features. A manic episode is a distinct period of abnormally and persistently elevated, expansive, or irritable mood. Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech, motor hyperactivity, reduced need for sleep, flight of ideas, grandiosity, poor judgment, aggressiveness, and possible hostility. A mixed episode is characterized by the criteria for a manic episode in conjunction with those for a major depressive episode (depressed mood, loss of interest or pleasure in nearly all activities). The efficacy of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets is based in part on studies of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in this indication, and was confirmed in a 3-week trial with patients meeting DSM-IV TR criteria for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The effectiveness of valproate for long-term use in mania, i.e., more than 3 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, healthcare providers who elect to use divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for extended periods should continually reevaluate the long-term risk-benefits of the drug for the individual patient. 1.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures in adults and children 10 years of age or older, and adjunctively in adults and children 10 years of age or older with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. Simple absence is defined as very brief clouding of the sensorium or loss of consciousness accompanied by certain generalized epileptic discharges without other detectable clinical signs. Complex absence is the term used when other signs are also present. 1.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches. There is no evidence that divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are useful in the acute treatment of migraine headaches. 1.4 Important Limitations Because of the risk to the fetus of decreased IQ, neurodevelopmental disorders, neural tube defects, and other major congenital malformations, which may occur very early in pregnancy, valproate should not be used to treat women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ] .

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: • with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • with known hypersensitivity to divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid. Reactions have included multiorgan hypersensitivity, serious dermatologic reactions, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14) ] . • with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches: who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . • Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4 , 5.12 ) • Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6 ) • Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: LIFE THREATENING ADVERSE REACTIONS Hepatotoxicity General Population: Hepatic failure resulting in fatalities has occurred in patients receiving valproate and its derivatives. These incidents usually have occurred during the first six months of treatment. Serious or fatal hepatotoxicity may be preceded by non-specific symptoms such as malaise, weakness, lethargy, facial edema, anorexia, and vomiting. In patients with epilepsy, a loss of seizure control may also occur. Patients should be monitored closely for appearance of these symptoms. Serum liver tests should be performed prior to therapy and at frequent intervals thereafter, especially during the first six months [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Children under the age of two years are at a considerably increased risk of developing fatal hepatotoxicity, especially those on multiple anticonvulsants, those with congenital metabolic disorders, those with severe seizure disorders accompanied by mental retardation, and those with organic brain disease. When divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are used in this patient group, it should be used with extreme caution and as a sole agent. The benefits of therapy should be weighed against the risks. The incidence of fatal hepatotoxicity decreases considerably in progressively older patient groups. Patients with Mitochondrial Disease: There is an increased risk of valproate-induced acute liver failure and resultant deaths in patients with hereditary neurometabolic syndromes caused by DNA mutations of the mitochondrial DNA Polymerase γ (POLG) gene (e.g., Alpers Huttenlocher Syndrome). Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by POLG mutations and children under two years of age who are clinically suspected of having a mitochondrial disorder [see Contraindications (4) ] . In patients over two years of age who are clinically suspected of having a hereditary mitochondrial disease, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should only be used after other anticonvulsants have failed. This older group of patients should be closely monitored during treatment with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for the development of acute liver injury with regular clinical assessments and serum liver testing. POLG mutation screening should be performed in accordance with current clinical practice [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Fetal Risk Valproate can cause major congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects (e.g., spina bifida). In addition, valproate can cause decreased IQ scores and neurodevelopmental disorders following in utero exposure. Valproate is therefore contraindicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in pregnant women and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ] . Valproate should not be used to treat women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable. In such situations, effective contraception should be used [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . A Medication Guide describing the risks of valproate is available for patients [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Pancreatitis Cases of life-threatening pancreatitis have been reported in both children and adults receiving valproate. Some of the cases have been described as hemorrhagic with a rapid progression from initial symptoms to death. Cases have been reported shortly after initial use as well as after several years of use. Patients and guardians should be warned that abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and/or anorexia can be symptoms of pancreatitis that require prompt medical evaluation. If pancreatitis is diagnosed, valproate should ordinarily be discontinued. Alternative treatment for the underlying medical condition should be initiated as clinically indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . WARNING: LIFE THREATENING ADVERSE REACTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Hepatotoxicity, including fatalities, usually during the first 6 months of treatment. Children under the age of two years and patients with mitochondrial disorders are at higher risk. Monitor patients closely, and perform serum liver testing prior to therapy and at frequent intervals thereafter ( 5.1 ) • Fetal Risk, particularly neural tube defects, other major malformations, and decreased IQ ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) • Pancreatitis, including fatal hemorrhagic cases ( 5.5 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are an extended-release product intended for once-a-day oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed. • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are intended for once-a-day oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Mania: Initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level ( 2.1 ). The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Complex Partial Seizures: Start at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response; if response is not satisfactory, check valproate plasma level; see full prescribing information for conversion to monotherapy ( 2.2 ). The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects ( 2.2 ). The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 500 mg/day for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg/day ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are administered orally. The recommended initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day given once daily. The dose should be increased as rapidly as possible to achieve the lowest therapeutic dose which produces the desired clinical effect or the desired range of plasma concentrations. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial of acute mania or mixed type, patients were dosed to a clinical response with a trough plasma concentration between 85 and 125 mcg/mL. The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during divalproex sodium extended-release tablets treatment of an acute manic episode. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no data to support the benefits of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in such longer-term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). 2.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are administered orally, and must be swallowed whole. As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Complex Partial Seizures For adults and children 10 years of age or older. Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been systematically studied as initial therapy. Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. The dosage should be increased by 5 to 10 mg/kg/week to achieve optimal clinical response. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 60 mg/kg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL). No recommendation regarding the safety of valproate for use at doses above 60 mg/kg/day can be made. The probability of thrombocytopenia increases significantly at total trough valproate plasma concentrations above 110 mcg/mL in females and 135 mcg/mL in males. The benefit of improved seizure control with higher doses should be weighed against the possibility of a greater incidence of adverse reactions. Conversion to Monotherapy Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. The dosage should be increased by 5 to 10 mg/kg/week to achieve optimal clinical response. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 60 mg/kg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 - 100 mcg/mL). No recommendation regarding the safety of valproate for use at doses above 60 mg/kg/day can be made. Concomitant antiepilepsy drug (AED) dosage can ordinarily be reduced by approximately 25% every 2 weeks. This reduction may be started at initiation of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. The speed and duration of withdrawal of the concomitant AED can be highly variable, and patients should be monitored closely during this period for increased seizure frequency. Adjunctive Therapy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. The dosage may be increased by 5 to 10 mg/kg/week to achieve optimal clinical response. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 60 mg/kg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL). No recommendation regarding the safety of valproate for use at doses above 60 mg/kg/day can be made. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. However, since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs, periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Simple and Complex Absence Seizures The recommended initial dose is 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at one week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increases. The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day. A good correlation has not been established between daily dose, serum concentrations, and therapeutic effect. However, therapeutic valproate serum concentration for most patients with absence seizures is considered to range from 50 to 100 mcg/mL. Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Antiepilepsy drugs should not be abruptly discontinued in patients in whom the drug is administered to prevent major seizures because of the strong possibility of precipitating status epilepticus with attendant hypoxia and threat to life. 2.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in adults. The recommended starting dose is 500 mg once daily for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg once daily. Although doses other than 1,000 mg once daily of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been evaluated in patients with migraine, the effective dose range of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in these patients is 500-1,000 mg/day. As with other valproate products, doses of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be individualized and dose adjustment may be necessary. If a patient requires smaller dose adjustments than that available with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be used instead. 2.4 Conversion from Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets to Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets In adult patients and pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with epilepsy previously receiving divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be administered once-daily using a dose 8 to 20% higher than the total daily dose of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets (Table 1). For patients whose divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose cannot be directly converted to divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, consideration may be given at the clinician’s discretion to increase the patient’s divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. Table 1. Dose Conversion Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) (mg) 500 These total daily doses of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets cannot be directly converted to an 8 to 20% higher total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets because the required dosing strengths of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are not available. Consideration may be given at the clinician’s discretion to increase the patient’s divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. - 625 750 750 - 875 1,000 1,000 -1,125 1,250 1,250-1,375 1,500 1,500-1,625 1,750 1,750 2,000 1,875-2,000 2,250 2,125-2,250 2,500 2,375 2,750 2,500-2,750 3,000 2,875 3,250 3,000-3,125 3,500 There is insufficient data to allow a conversion factor recommendation for patients with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets doses above 3,125 mg/day. Plasma valproate C min concentrations for divalproex sodium extended-release tablets on average are equivalent to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, but may vary across patients after conversion. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 2.5 General Dosing Advice Dosing in Elderly Patients Due to a decrease in unbound clearance of valproate and possibly a greater sensitivity to somnolence in the elderly, the starting dose should be reduced in these patients. Starting doses in the elderly lower than 250 mg can only be achieved by the use of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets. Dosage should be increased more slowly and with regular monitoring for fluid and nutritional intake, dehydration, somnolence, and other adverse reactions. Dose reductions or discontinuation of valproate should be considered in patients with decreased food or fluid intake and in patients with excessive somnolence. The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose-Related Adverse Reactions The frequency of adverse effects (particularly elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia) may be dose-related. The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . The benefit of improved therapeutic effect with higher doses should be weighed against the possibility of a greater incidence of adverse reactions. G.I. Irritation Patients who experience G.I. irritation may benefit from administration of the drug with food or by slowly building up the dose from an initial low level. Compliance Patients should be informed to take divalproex sodium extended-release tablets every day as prescribed. If a dose is missed it should be taken as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. If a dose is skipped, the patient should not double the next dose. 2.6 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: • Hepatic Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Birth Defects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Decreased IQ and Neurodevelopmental Disorders following in utero exposure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Hyperammonemic Encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10) ] • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] • Bleeding and Other Hematopoietic Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Hypothermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] • Serious Dermatologic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] • Angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] • Somnolence in the Elderly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ] Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Information on pediatric adverse reactions is presented in section 8. • Most common adverse reactions (reported ≥ 15% for any indication) are abdominal pain, alopecia, asthenia, diarrhea, diplopia, dizziness, dyspepsia, headache, infection, insomnia, nausea, somnolence, thrombocytopenia, tremor, vomiting ( 6.1 , 6.2 , 6.3 ). • The safety and tolerability of valproate in pediatric patients were shown to be comparable to those in adults ( 8.4 ). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Mania The incidence of treatment-emergent events has been ascertained based on combined data from two three week placebo-controlled clinical trials of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in the treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Table 3 summarizes those adverse reactions reported for patients in these trials where the incidence rate in the divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated group was greater than 5% and greater than the placebo incidence. Table 3. Adverse Reactions Reported by > 5% of Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Patients During Placebo-Controlled Trials of Acute Mania The following adverse reactions/event occurred at an equal or greater incidence for placebo than for divalproex sodium extended-release tablets: headache Adverse Event Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets (n = 338) % Placebo (n = 263) % Somnolence 26 14 Dyspepsia 23 11 Nausea 19 13 Vomiting 13 5 Diarrhea 12 8 Dizziness 12 7 Pain 11 10 Abdominal Pain 10 5 Accidental Injury 6 5 Asthenia 6 5 Pharyngitis 6 5 The following additional adverse reactions were reported by greater than 1% of the divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated patients in controlled clinical trials: Body as a Whole: Back Pain, Chills, Chills and Fever, Drug Level Increased, Flu Syndrome, Infection, Infection Fungal, Neck Rigidity. Cardiovascular System: Arrhythmia, Hypertension, Hypotension, Postural Hypotension. Digestive System: Constipation, Dry Mouth, Dysphagia, Fecal Incontinence, Flatulence, Gastroenteritis, Glossitis, Gum Hemorrhage, Mouth Ulceration. Hemic and Lymphatic System: Anemia, Bleeding Time Increased, Ecchymosis, Leucopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hypoproteinemia, Peripheral Edema. Musculoskeletal System: Arthrosis, Myalgia. Nervous System: Abnormal Gait, Agitation, Catatonic Reaction, Dysarthria, Hallucinations, Hypertonia, Hypokinesia, Psychosis, Reflexes Increased, Sleep Disorder, Tardive Dyskinesia, Tremor. Respiratory System: Hiccup, Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Discoid Lupus Erythematosus, Erythema Nodosum, Furunculosis, Maculopapular Rash, Pruritus, Rash, Seborrhea, Sweating, Vesiculobullous Rash. Special Senses: Conjunctivitis, Dry Eyes, Eye Disorder, Eye Pain, Photophobia, Taste Perversion. Urogenital System: Cystitis, Urinary Tract Infection, Menstrual Disorder, Vaginitis. 6.2 Epilepsy Based on a placebo-controlled trial of adjunctive therapy for treatment of complex partial seizures, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets were generally well tolerated with most adverse reactions rated as mild to moderate in severity. Intolerance was the primary reason for discontinuation in the divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets-treated patients (6%), compared to 1% of placebo-treated patients. Table 4 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions which were reported by ≥ 5% of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets-treated patients and for which the incidence was greater than in the placebo group, in the placebo-controlled trial of adjunctive therapy for treatment of complex partial seizures. Since patients were also treated with other antiepilepsy drugs, it is not possible, in most cases, to determine whether the following adverse reactions can be ascribed to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets alone, or the combination of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets and other antiepilepsy drugs. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 5% of Patients Treated with Valproate During Placebo-Controlled Trial of Adjunctive Therapy for Complex Partial Seizures Body System/Event Divalproex Sodium Delayed- Release Tablets (N = 77) % Placebo (N = 70) % Body as a Whole Headache 31 21 Asthenia 27 7 Fever 6 4 Gastrointestinal System Nausea 48 14 Vomiting 27 7 Abdominal Pain 23 6 Diarrhea 13 6 Anorexia 12 0 Dyspepsia 8 4 Constipation 5 1 Nervous System Somnolence 27 11 Tremor 25 6 Dizziness 25 13 Diplopia 16 9 Amblyopia/Blurred Vision 12 9 Ataxia 8 1 Nystagmus 8 1 Emotional Lability 6 4 Thinking Abnormal 6 0 Amnesia 5 1 Respiratory System Flu Syndrome 12 9 Infection 12 6 Bronchitis 5 1 Rhinitis 5 4 Other Alopecia 6 1 Weight Loss 6 0 Table 5 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions which were reported by ≥ 5% of patients in the high dose valproate group, and for which the incidence was greater than in the low dose group, in a controlled trial of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets monotherapy treatment of complex partial seizures. Since patients were being titrated off another antiepilepsy drug during the first portion of the trial, it is not possible, in many cases, to determine whether the following adverse reactions can be ascribed to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets alone, or the combination of valproate and other antiepilepsy drugs. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 5% of Patients in the High Dose Group in the Controlled Trial of Valproate Monotherapy for Complex Partial Seizures Headache was the only adverse event that occurred in ≥ 5% of patients in the high dose group and at an equal or greater incidence in the low dose group. Body System/Event High Dose (n = 131) % Low Dose (n = 134) % Body as a Whole Asthenia 21 10 Digestive System Nausea 34 26 Diarrhea 23 19 Vomiting 23 15 Abdominal Pain 12 9 Anorexia 11 4 Dyspepsia 11 10 Hemic/Lymphatic System Thrombocytopenia 24 1 Ecchymosis 5 4 Metabolic/Nutritional Weight Gain 9 4 Peripheral Edema 8 3 Nervous System Tremor 57 19 Somnolence 30 18 Dizziness 18 13 Insomnia 15 9 Nervousness 11 7 Amnesia 7 4 Nystagmus 7 1 Depression 5 4 Respiratory System Infection 20 13 Pharyngitis 8 2 Dyspnea 5 1 Skin and Appendages Alopecia 24 13 Special Senses Amblyopia/Blurred Vision 8 4 Tinnitus 7 1 The following additional adverse reactions were reported by greater than 1% but less than 5% of the 358 patients treated with valproate in the controlled trials of complex partial seizures: Body as a Whole: Back pain, chest pain, malaise. Cardiovascular System: Tachycardia, hypertension, palpitation. Digestive System: Increased appetite, flatulence, hematemesis, eructation, pancreatitis, periodontal abscess. Hemic and Lymphatic System: Petechia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: SGOT increased, SGPT increased. Musculoskeletal System: Myalgia, twitching, arthralgia, leg cramps, myasthenia. Nervous System: Anxiety, confusion, abnormal gait, paresthesia, hypertonia, incoordination, abnormal dreams, personality disorder. Respiratory System: Sinusitis, cough increased, pneumonia, epistaxis. Skin and Appendages: Rash, pruritus, dry skin. Special Senses: Taste perversion, abnormal vision, deafness, otitis media. Urogenital System: Urinary incontinence, vaginitis, dysmenorrhea, amenorrhea, urinary frequency. 6.3 Migraine Based on two placebo-controlled clinical trials and their long term extension, valproate was generally well tolerated with most adverse reactions rated as mild to moderate in severity. Of the 202 patients exposed to valproate in the placebo-controlled trials, 17% discontinued for intolerance. This is compared to a rate of 5% for the 81 placebo patients. Including the long term extension study, the adverse reactions reported as the primary reason for discontinuation by ≥ 1% of 248 valproate-treated patients were alopecia (6%), nausea and/or vomiting (5%), weight gain (2%), tremor (2%), somnolence (1%), elevated SGOT and/or SGPT (1%), and depression (1%). Table 6 includes those adverse reactions reported for patients in the placebo-controlled trial where the incidence rate in the divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated group was greater than 5% and was greater than that for placebo patients. Table 6. Adverse Reactions Reported by > 5% of Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Patients During the Migraine Placebo-Controlled Trial with a Greater Incidence than Patients Taking Placebo The following adverse reactions occurred in greater than 5% of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated patients and at a greater incidence for placebo than for divalproex sodium extended-release tablets: asthenia and flu syndrome. Body System Event Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets (n = 122) % Placebo (n = 115) % Gastrointestinal System Nausea 15 9 Dyspepsia 7 4 Diarrhea 7 3 Vomiting 7 2 Abdominal Pain 7 5 Nervous System Somnolence 7 2 Other Infection 15 14 The following additional adverse reactions were reported by greater than 1% but not more than 5% of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated patients and with a greater incidence than placebo in the placebo-controlled clinical trial for migraine prophylaxis: Body as a Whole: Accidental injury, viral infection. Digestive System: Increased appetite, tooth disorder. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema, weight gain. Nervous System: Abnormal gait, dizziness, hypertonia, insomnia, nervousness, tremor, vertigo. Respiratory System: Pharyngitis, rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Table 7 includes those adverse reactions reported for patients in the placebo-controlled trials where the incidence rate in the valproate-treated group was greater than 5% and was greater than that for placebo patients. Table 7. Adverse Reactions Reported by > 5% of Valproate-Treated Patients During Migraine Placebo-Controlled Trials with a Greater Incidence than Patients Taking Placebo The following adverse reactions occurred in greater than 5% of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets-treated patients and at a greater incidence for placebo than for divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets: flu syndrome and pharyngitis. Body System Reaction Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets (n = 202) % Placebo (n = 81) % Gastrointestinal System Nausea 31 10 Dyspepsia 13 9 Diarrhea 12 7 Vomiting 11 1 Abdominal Pain 9 4 Increased Appetite 6 4 Nervous System Asthenia 20 9 Somnolence 17 5 Dizziness 12 6 Tremor 9 0 Other Weight Gain 8 2 Back Pain 8 6 Alopecia 7 1 The following additional adverse reactions were reported by greater than 1% but not more than 5% of the 202 valproate-treated patients in the controlled clinical trials: Body as a Whole: Chest pain. Cardiovascular System: Vasodilatation. Digestive System: Constipation, dry mouth, flatulence, and stomatitis. Hemic and Lymphatic System: Ecchymosis. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal System: Leg cramps. Nervous System: Abnormal dreams, confusion, paresthesia, speech disorder, and thinking abnormalities. Respiratory System: Dyspnea, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus. Urogenital System: Metrorrhagia. 6.4 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: Hair texture changes, hair color changes, photosensitivity, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, nail and nail bed disorders, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hyperpigmentation, and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Psychiatric: Emotional upset, psychosis, aggression, psychomotor hyperactivity, hostility, disturbance in attention, learning disorder, and behavioral deterioration. Neurologic: Paradoxical convulsion, parkinsonism There have been several reports of acute or subacute cognitive decline and behavioral changes (apathy or irritability) with cerebral pseudoatrophy on imaging associated with valproate therapy; both the cognitive/behavioral changes and cerebral pseudoatrophy reversed partially or fully after valproate discontinuation. There have been reports of acute or subacute encephalopathy in the absence of elevated ammonia levels, elevated valproate levels, or neuroimaging changes. The encephalopathy reversed partially or fully after valproate discontinuation. Musculoskeletal: Fractures, decreased bone mineral density, osteopenia, osteoporosis, and weakness. Hematologic: Relative lymphocytosis, macrocytosis, leukopenia, acquired Pelger-Huet anomaly, anemia including macrocytic with or without folate deficiency, bone marrow suppression, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, and acute intermittent porphyria. Endocrine: Irregular menses, secondary amenorrhea, hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, elevated testosterone level, breast enlargement, galactorrhea, parotid gland swelling, polycystic ovary disease, decreased carnitine concentrations, hyponatremia, hyperglycinemia, and inappropriate ADH secretion. There have been rare reports of Fanconi's syndrome occurring chiefly in children. Metabolism and nutrition: Weight gain. Reproductive: Aspermia, azoospermia, decreased sperm count, decreased spermatozoa motility, male infertility, and abnormal spermatozoa morphology. Genitourinary: Enuresis, urinary tract infection, and tubulointerstitial nephritis. Special Senses: Hearing loss. Other: Allergic reaction, anaphylaxis, developmental delay, bone pain, bradycardia, cutaneous vasculitis, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] .

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone, rifampin) can increase valproate clearance, while enzyme inhibitors (e.g., felbamate) can decrease valproate clearance. Therefore, increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) • Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) • Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) • Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) • Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets ( 7.2 ) • Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) • Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. For example, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbital (or primidone) can double the clearance of valproate. Thus, patients on monotherapy will generally have longer half-lives and higher concentrations than patients receiving polytherapy with antiepilepsy drugs. In contrast, drugs that are inhibitors of cytochrome P450 isozymes, e.g., antidepressants, may be expected to have little effect on valproate clearance because cytochrome P450 microsomal mediated oxidation is a relatively minor secondary metabolic pathway compared to glucuronidation and beta-oxidation. Because of these changes in valproate clearance, monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations should be increased whenever enzyme inducing drugs are introduced or withdrawn. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of several commonly prescribed medications on valproate pharmacokinetics. The list is not exhaustive nor could it be, since new interactions are continuously being reported. Drugs for which a potentially important interaction has been observed Aspirin A study involving the co-administration of aspirin at antipyretic doses (11 to 16 mg/kg) with valproate to pediatric patients (n = 6) revealed a decrease in protein binding and an inhibition of metabolism of valproate. Valproate free fraction was increased 4-fold in the presence of aspirin compared to valproate alone. The β-oxidation pathway consisting of 2-E-valproic acid, 3-OH-valproic acid, and 3-keto valproic acid was decreased from 25% of total metabolites excreted on valproate alone to 8.3% in the presence of aspirin. Whether or not the interaction observed in this study applies to adults is unknown, but caution should be observed if valproate and aspirin are to be co-administered. Carbapenem Antibiotics A clinically significant reduction in serum valproic acid concentration has been reported in patients receiving carbapenem antibiotics (for example, ertapenem, imipenem, meropenem; this is not a complete list) and may result in loss of seizure control. The mechanism of this interaction is not well understood. Serum valproic acid concentrations should be monitored frequently after initiating carbapenem therapy. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . Estrogen-Containing Hormonal Contraceptives Estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives may increase the clearance of valproate, which may result in decreased concentration of valproate and potentially increased seizure frequency. Prescribers should monitor serum valproate concentrations and clinical response when adding or discontinuing estrogen containing products. Felbamate A study involving the co-administration of 1,200 mg/day of felbamate with valproate to patients with epilepsy (n = 10) revealed an increase in mean valproate peak concentration by 35% (from 86 to 115 mcg/mL) compared to valproate alone. Increasing the felbamate dose to 2,400 mg/day increased the mean valproate peak concentration to 133 mcg/mL (another 16% increase). A decrease in valproate dosage may be necessary when felbamate therapy is initiated. Methotrexate Methotrexate may decrease serum valproate levels and potentially result in increased frequency of seizures or bipolar symptoms. Prescribers should monitor serum valproate concentrations and clinical response when adding or discontinuing methotrexate and adjust valproate dosage, if necessary. Rifampin A study involving the administration of a single dose of valproate (7 mg/kg) 36 hours after 5 nights of daily dosing with rifampin (600 mg) revealed a 40% increase in the oral clearance of valproate. Valproate dosage adjustment may be necessary when it is co-administered with rifampin. 7.2 Effects of Valproate on Other Drugs Valproate has been found to be a weak inhibitor of some P450 isozymes, epoxide hydrase, and glucuronosyltransferases. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of valproate co-administration on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of several commonly prescribed medications. The list is not exhaustive, since new interactions are continuously being reported. Drugs for which a potentially important valproate interaction has been observed Amitriptyline/Nortriptyline Administration of a single oral 50 mg dose of amitriptyline to 15 normal volunteers (10 males and 5 females) who received valproate (500 mg BID) resulted in a 21% decrease in plasma clearance of amitriptyline and a 34% decrease in the net clearance of nortriptyline. Rare postmarketing reports of concurrent use of valproate and amitriptyline resulting in an increased amitriptyline level have been received. Concurrent use of valproate and amitriptyline has rarely been associated with toxicity. Monitoring of amitriptyline levels should be considered for patients taking valproate concomitantly with amitriptyline. Consideration should be given to lowering the dose of amitriptyline/nortriptyline in the presence of valproate. Carbamazepine/carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide Serum levels of carbamazepine (CBZ) decreased 17% while that of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (CBZ-E) increased by 45% upon co-administration of valproate and CBZ to epileptic patients. Clonazepam The concomitant use of valproate and clonazepam may induce absence status in patients with a history of absence type seizures. Diazepam Valproate displaces diazepam from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its metabolism. Co-administration of valproate (1,500 mg daily) increased the free fraction of diazepam (10 mg) by 90% in healthy volunteers (n = 6). Plasma clearance and volume of distribution for free diazepam were reduced by 25% and 20%, respectively, in the presence of valproate. The elimination half-life of diazepam remained unchanged upon addition of valproate. Ethosuximide Valproate inhibits the metabolism of ethosuximide. Administration of a single ethosuximide dose of 500 mg with valproate (800 to 1,600 mg/day) to healthy volunteers (n = 6) was accompanied by a 25% increase in elimination half-life of ethosuximide and a 15% decrease in its total clearance as compared to ethosuximide alone. Patients receiving valproate and ethosuximide, especially along with other anticonvulsants, should be monitored for alterations in serum concentrations of both drugs. Lamotrigine In a steady-state study involving 10 healthy volunteers, the elimination half-life of lamotrigine increased from 26 to 70 hours with valproate co-administration (a 165% increase). The dose of lamotrigine should be reduced when co-administered with valproate. Serious skin reactions (such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported with concomitant lamotrigine and valproate administration. See lamotrigine package insert for details on lamotrigine dosing with concomitant valproate administration. Phenobarbital Valproate was found to inhibit the metabolism of phenobarbital. Co-administration of valproate (250 mg BID for 14 days) with phenobarbital to normal subjects (n = 6) resulted in a 50% increase in half-life and a 30% decrease in plasma clearance of phenobarbital (60 mg single-dose). The fraction of phenobarbital dose excreted unchanged increased by 50% in presence of valproate. There is evidence for severe CNS depression, with or without significant elevations of barbiturate or valproate serum concentrations. All patients receiving concomitant barbiturate therapy should be closely monitored for neurological toxicity. Serum barbiturate concentrations should be obtained, if possible, and the barbiturate dosage decreased, if appropriate. Primidone, which is metabolized to a barbiturate, may be involved in a similar interaction with valproate. Phenytoin Valproate displaces phenytoin from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its hepatic metabolism. Co-administration of valproate (400 mg TID) with phenytoin (250 mg) in normal volunteers (n = 7) was associated with a 60% increase in the free fraction of phenytoin. Total plasma clearance and apparent volume of distribution of phenytoin increased 30% in the presence of valproate. Both the clearance and apparent volume of distribution of free phenytoin were reduced by 25%. In patients with epilepsy, there have been reports of breakthrough seizures occurring with the combination of valproate and phenytoin. The dosage of phenytoin should be adjusted as required by the clinical situation. Propofol The concomitant use of valproate and propofol may lead to increased blood levels of propofol. Reduce the dose of propofol when co-administering with valproate. Monitor patients closely for signs of increased sedation or cardiorespiratory depression. Rufinamide Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, rufinamide clearance was decreased by valproate. Rufinamide concentrations were increased by < 16% to 70%, dependent on concentration of valproate (with the larger increases being seen in pediatric patients at high doses or concentrations of valproate). Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Similarly, patients on valproate should begin at a rufinamide dose lower than 10 mg/kg per day (pediatric patients) or 400 mg per day (adults). Tolbutamide From in vitro experiments, the unbound fraction of tolbutamide was increased from 20% to 50% when added to plasma samples taken from patients treated with valproate. The clinical relevance of this displacement is unknown. Warfarin In an in vitro study, valproate increased the unbound fraction of warfarin by up to 32.6%. The therapeutic relevance of this is unknown; however, coagulation tests should be monitored if valproate therapy is instituted in patients taking anticoagulants. Zidovudine In six patients who were seropositive for HIV, the clearance of zidovudine (100 mg q8h) was decreased by 38% after administration of valproate (250 or 500 mg q8h); the half-life of zidovudine was unaffected. 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10) ] . Concomitant administration of topiramate with valproate has also been associated with hypothermia in patients who have tolerated either drug alone. It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9 , 5.11) ] . 7.4 Cannabidiol Concomitant administration of valproate and cannabidiol has been associated with an increased risk of ALT and/or AST elevation. This has been manageable by dose reduction or, in more severe cases, by discontinuation of one or both drugs. Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, during pregnancy. Encourage women who are taking divalproex sodium extended-release tablets during pregnancy to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry by calling toll-free 1-888-233-2334 or visiting the website, http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. This must be done by the patient herself. Risk Summary For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches, valproate is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ] . For use in epilepsy or bipolar disorder, valproate should not be used to treat women who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] . Women with epilepsy who become pregnant while taking valproate should not discontinue valproate abruptly, as this can precipitate status epilepticus with resulting maternal and fetal hypoxia and threat to life. Maternal valproate use during pregnancy for any indication increases the risk of congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects including spina bifida, but also malformations involving other body systems (e.g., craniofacial defects including oral clefts, cardiovascular malformations, hypospadias, limb malformations). This risk is dose-dependent; however, a threshold dose below which no risk exists cannot be established. In utero exposure to valproate may also result in hearing impairment or hearing loss. Valproate polytherapy with other AEDs has been associated with an increased frequency of congenital malformations compared with AED monotherapy. The risk of major structural abnormalities is greatest during the first trimester; however, other serious developmental effects can occur with valproate use throughout pregnancy. The rate of congenital malformations among babies born to epileptic mothers who used valproate during pregnancy has been shown to be about four times higher than the rate among babies born to epileptic mothers who used other anti-seizure monotherapies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Data ] . Epidemiological studies have indicated that children exposed to valproate in utero have lower IQ scores and a higher risk of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), intellectual disability (ID, defined as an IQ < 70), and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), compared to children exposed to either another AED in utero or to no AEDs in utero [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Data (Human) ] . In animal studies, valproate administration during pregnancy resulted in fetal structural malformations similar to those seen in humans and neurobehavioral deficits in the offspring at clinically relevant doses [see Data ] . There have been reports of hypoglycemia in neonates and fatal cases of hepatic failure in infants following maternal use of valproate during pregnancy. Pregnant women taking valproate may develop hepatic failure or clotting abnormalities including thrombocytopenia, hypofibrinogenemia, and/or decrease in other coagulation factors, which may result in hemorrhagic complications in the neonate including death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.8) ] . Available prenatal diagnostic testing to detect neural tube and other defects should be offered to pregnant women using valproate. Evidence suggests that folic acid supplementation prior to conception and during the first trimester of pregnancy decreases the risk for congenital neural tube defects in the general population. It is not known whether the risk of neural tube defects or decreased IQ in the offspring of women receiving valproate is reduced by folic acid supplementation. Dietary folic acid supplementation both prior to conception and during pregnancy should be routinely recommended for women of childbearing potential using valproate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4) ] . All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated maternal and/or embryo/fetal risk Epilepsy, with or without exposure to antiepileptic drugs, has been associated with several adverse outcomes during pregnancy, including preeclampsia, preterm labor, antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage, placental abruption, poor fetal growth, prematurity, fetal death, and maternal mortality. The risk of maternal or fetal injury may be greatest for patients with untreated or poorly controlled convulsive seizures. Women with epilepsy who become pregnant should not abruptly discontinue antiepileptic drugs, including valproate, due to the risk of status epilepticus or severe seizures, which may be life-threatening. Maternal adverse reactions Pregnant women taking valproate may develop clotting abnormalities including thrombocytopenia, hypofibrinogenemia, and/or decrease in other coagulation factors, which may result in hemorrhagic complications in the neonate including death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . If valproate is used in pregnancy, the clotting parameters should be monitored carefully in the mother. If abnormal in the mother, then these parameters should also be monitored in the neonate. Patients taking valproate may develop hepatic failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Fatal cases of hepatic failure in infants exposed to valproate in utero have also been reported following maternal use of valproate during pregnancy. Hypoglycemia has been reported in neonates whose mothers have taken valproate during pregnancy. Data Human Data Neural Tube Defects and Other Structural Abnormalities There is an extensive body of evidence demonstrating that exposure to valproate in utero increases the risk of neural tube defects and other structural abnormalities. Based on published data from the CDC’s National Birth Defects Prevention Network, the risk of spina bifida in the general population is about 0.06 to 0.07% (6 to 7 in 10,000 births) compared to the risk following in utero valproate exposure estimated to be approximately 1 to 2% (100 to 200 in 10,000 births). The NAAED Pregnancy Registry has reported a major malformation rate of 9-11% in the offspring of women exposed to an average of 1,000 mg/day of valproate monotherapy during pregnancy. These data show an up to a five-fold increased risk for any major malformation following valproate exposure in utero compared to the risk following exposure in utero to other AEDs taken as monotherapy. The major congenital malformations included cases of neural tube defects, cardiovascular malformations, craniofacial defects (e.g., oral clefts, craniosynostosis), hypospadias, limb malformations (e.g., clubfoot, polydactyly), and other malformations of varying severity involving other body systems [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Neurodevelopmental Disorders and Effect on IQ Published epidemiological studies have indicated that children exposed to valproate in utero have lower IQ scores than children exposed to either another AED in utero or to no AEDs in utero. The largest of these studies 1 is a prospective cohort study conducted in the United States and United Kingdom that found that children with prenatal exposure to valproate (n = 62) had lower IQ scores at age 6 (97 [95% CI 94–101]) than children with prenatal exposure to the other anti-epileptic drug monotherapy treatments evaluated: lamotrigine (108 [95% CI 105–110]), carbamazepine (105 [95% CI 102–108]) and phenytoin (108 [95% CI 104–112]). Because the women in this study were exposed to AEDs throughout pregnancy, whether the risk for decreased IQ was related to a particular time period during pregnancy could not be assessed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Multiple large, epidemiological studies suggest that exposure to valproate monotherapy in utero may be associated with an increased risk of: • ASD (adjusted risk estimates across studies range from 1.6 [95% CI 0.98, 2.5] to 6.4 [95% CI 3.5, 11.5]) • ID (adjusted risk estimates across studies range from 1.6 [95% CI 0.9, 2.9] to 9.6 [95% CI 3.5, 26.2]) • ADHD (adjusted risk estimates across studies range from 0.7 [95% CI 0.4, 1.1] to 2.2 [95% CI 1.3, 3.5]) Estimates differ based on study population, study comparator, and outcome definitions. Limitations of the studies include, but are not limited to, confounding by indication, residual confounding, limited follow-up time for children who were exposed to valproate in utero, and reliance on number of prescriptions filled, which may not always reflect actual usage and exposure. Other There are published case reports of fatal hepatic failure in offspring of women who used valproate during pregnancy. Animal Data In developmental toxicity studies conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys, increased rates of fetal structural abnormalities, intrauterine growth retardation, and embryo-fetal death occurred following administration of valproate to pregnant animals during organogenesis at clinically relevant doses (calculated on a body surface area [mg/m 2 ] basis). Valproate induced malformations of multiple organ systems, including skeletal, cardiac, and urogenital defects. In mice, in addition to other malformations, fetal neural tube defects have been reported following valproate administration during critical periods of organogenesis, and the teratogenic response correlated with peak maternal drug levels. Behavioral abnormalities (including cognitive, locomotor, and social interaction deficits) and brain histopathological changes have also been reported in mice and rat offspring exposed prenatally to clinically relevant doses of valproate.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Experience has indicated that pediatric patients under the age of two years are at a considerably increased risk of developing fatal hepatotoxicity, especially those with the aforementioned conditions [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . When divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are used in this patient group, it should be used with extreme caution and as a sole agent. The benefits of therapy should be weighed against the risks. Above the age of 2 years, experience in epilepsy has indicated that the incidence of fatal hepatotoxicity decreases considerably in progressively older patient groups. Younger children, especially those receiving enzyme inducing drugs, will require larger maintenance doses to attain targeted total and unbound valproate concentrations. Pediatric patients (i.e., between 3 months and 10 years) have 50% higher clearances expressed on weight (i.e., mL/min/kg) than do adults. Over the age of 10 years, children have pharmacokinetic parameters that approximate those of adults. The variability in free fraction limits the clinical usefulness of monitoring total serum valproic acid concentrations. Interpretation of valproic acid concentrations in children should include consideration of factors that affect hepatic metabolism and protein binding. Pediatric Clinical Trials Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets were studied in seven pediatric clinical trials. Two of the pediatric studies were double-blinded placebo-controlled trials to evaluate the efficacy of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for the indications of mania (150 patients aged 10 to 17 years, 76 of whom were on divalproex sodium extended-release tablets) and migraine (304 patients aged 12 to 17 years, 231 of whom were on divalproex sodium extended-release tablets). Efficacy was not established for either the treatment of migraine or the treatment of mania. The most common drug-related adverse reactions (reported > 5% and twice the rate of placebo) reported in the controlled pediatric mania study were nausea, upper abdominal pain, somnolence, increased ammonia, gastritis and rash. The remaining five trials were long term safety studies. Two six-month pediatric studies were conducted to evaluate the long-term safety of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for the indication of mania (292 patients aged 10 to 17 years). Two twelve-month pediatric studies were conducted to evaluate the long-term safety of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for the indication of migraine (353 patients aged 12 to 17 years). One twelve-month study was conducted to evaluate the safety of divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules in the indication of partial seizures (169 patients aged 3 to 10 years). In these seven clinical trials, the safety and tolerability of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in pediatric patients were shown to be comparable to those in adults [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Juvenile Animal Toxicology In studies of valproate in immature animals, toxic effects not observed in adult animals included retinal dysplasia in rats treated during the neonatal period (from postnatal day 4) and nephrotoxicity in rats treated during the neonatal and juvenile (from postnatal day 14) periods. The no-effect dose for these findings was less than the maximum recommended human dose on a mg/m 2 basis.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use No patients above the age of 65 years were enrolled in double-blind prospective clinical trials of mania associated with bipolar illness. In a case review study of 583 patients, 72 patients (12%) were greater than 65 years of age. A higher percentage of patients above 65 years of age reported accidental injury, infection, pain, somnolence, and tremor. Discontinuation of valproate was occasionally associated with the latter two events. It is not clear whether these events indicate additional risk or whether they result from preexisting medical illness and concomitant medication use among these patients. A study of elderly patients with dementia revealed drug related somnolence and discontinuation for somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ]. The starting dose should be reduced in these patients, and dosage reductions or discontinuation should be considered in patients with excessive somnolence [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. There is insufficient information available to discern the safety and effectiveness of valproate for the prophylaxis of migraines in patients over 65. The capacity of elderly patients (age range: 68 to 89 years) to eliminate valproate has been shown to be reduced compared to younger adults (age range: 22 to 26 years) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with valproate may result in somnolence, heart block, deep coma, and hypernatremia. Fatalities have been reported; however patients have recovered from valproate levels as high as 2,120 mcg/mL. In overdose situations, the fraction of drug not bound to protein is high and hemodialysis or tandem hemodialysis plus hemoperfusion may result in significant removal of drug. The benefit of gastric lavage or emesis will vary with the time since ingestion. General supportive measures should be applied with particular attention to the maintenance of adequate urinary output. Naloxone has been reported to reverse the CNS depressant effects of valproate overdosage. Because naloxone could theoretically also reverse the antiepileptic effects of valproate, it should be used with caution in patients with epilepsy.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Mania The effectiveness of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for the treatment of acute mania is based in part on studies establishing the effectiveness of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets for this indication. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets’ effectiveness was confirmed in one randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, 3-week, multicenter study. The study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in the treatment of bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, in adults. Adult male and female patients who had a current DSM-IV TR primary diagnosis of bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, and who were hospitalized for acute mania, were enrolled into this study. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets were initiated at a dose of 25 mg/kg/day given once daily, increased by 500 mg/day on Day 3, then adjusted to achieve plasma valproate concentrations in the range of 85-125 mcg/mL. Mean daily divalproex sodium extended-release tablets doses for observed cases were 2,362 mg (range: 500-4,000), 2,874 mg (range: 1,500-4,500), 2,993 mg (range: 1,500-4,500), 3,181 mg (range: 1,500-5,000), and 3,353 mg (range: 1,500-5,500) at Days 1, 5, 10, 15, and 21, respectively. Mean valproate concentrations were 96.5 mcg/mL, 102.1 mcg/mL, 98.5 mcg/mL, 89.5 mcg/mL at Days 5, 10, 15 and 21, respectively. Patients were assessed on the Mania Rating Scale (MRS; score ranges from 0-52). Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets were significantly more effective than placebo in reduction of the MRS total score. 14.2 Epilepsy The efficacy of valproate in reducing the incidence of complex partial seizures (CPS) that occur in isolation or in association with other seizure types was established in two controlled trials. In one, multi-clinic, placebo controlled study employing an add-on design (adjunctive therapy), 144 patients who continued to suffer eight or more CPS per 8 weeks during an 8 week period of monotherapy with doses of either carbamazepine or phenytoin sufficient to assure plasma concentrations within the "therapeutic range" were randomized to receive, in addition to their original antiepilepsy drug (AED), either divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets or placebo. Randomized patients were to be followed for a total of 16 weeks. The following table presents the findings. Table 9. Adjunctive Therapy Study Median Incidence of CPS per 8 Weeks Add-on Treatment Number of Patients Baseline Incidence Experimental Incidence Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 75 16.0 8.9 Reduction from baseline statistically significantly greater for valproate than placebo at p ≤ 0.05 level. Placebo 69 14.5 11.5 Figure 1 presents the proportion of patients (X axis) whose percentage reduction from baseline in complex partial seizure rates was at least as great as that indicated on the Y axis in the adjunctive therapy study. A positive percent reduction indicates an improvement (i.e., a decrease in seizure frequency), while a negative percent reduction indicates worsening. Thus, in a display of this type, the curve for an effective treatment is shifted to the left of the curve for placebo. This figure shows that the proportion of patients achieving any particular level of improvement was consistently higher for valproate than for placebo. For example, 45% of patients treated with valproate had a ≥ 50% reduction in complex partial seizure rate compared to 23% of patients treated with placebo. Figure 1. The second study assessed the capacity of valproate to reduce the incidence of CPS when administered as the sole AED. The study compared the incidence of CPS among patients randomized to either a high or low dose treatment arm. Patients qualified for entry into the randomized comparison phase of this study only if 1) they continued to experience 2 or more CPS per 4 weeks during an 8 to 12 week long period of monotherapy with adequate doses of an AED (i.e., phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, or primidone) and 2) they made a successful transition over a two week interval to valproate. Patients entering the randomized phase were then brought to their assigned target dose, gradually tapered off their concomitant AED and followed for an interval as long as 22 weeks. Less than 50% of the patients randomized, however, completed the study. In patients converted to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets monotherapy, the mean total valproate concentrations during monotherapy were 71 and 123 mcg/mL in the low dose and high dose groups, respectively. The following table presents the findings for all patients randomized who had at least one post-randomization assessment. Table 10. Monotherapy Study Median Incidence of CPS per 8 Weeks Treatment Number of Patients Baseline Incidence Randomized Phase Incidence High dose Valproate 131 13.2 10.7 Reduction from baseline statistically significantly greater for high dose than low dose at p ≤ 0.05 level. Low dose Valproate 134 14.2 13.8 Figure 2 presents the proportion of patients (X axis) whose percentage reduction from baseline in complex partial seizure rates was at least as great as that indicated on the Y axis in the monotherapy study. A positive percent reduction indicates an improvement (i.e., a decrease in seizure frequency), while a negative percent reduction indicates worsening. Thus, in a display of this type, the curve for a more effective treatment is shifted to the left of the curve for a less effective treatment. This figure shows that the proportion of patients achieving any particular level of reduction was consistently higher for high dose valproate than for low dose valproate. For example, when switching from carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital or primidone monotherapy to high dose valproate monotherapy, 63% of patients experienced no change or a reduction in complex partial seizure rates compared to 54% of patients receiving low dose valproate. Figure 2. Information on pediatric studies is presented in section 8. Figure 1: Proportion of patients (X axis) whose percentage reduction from baseline in complex partial seizure rates was at least as great as that indicated on the Y axis in the adjunctive therapy study Figure 2: Proportion of patients (X axis) whose percentage reduction from baseline in complex partial seizure rates was at least as great as that indicated on the Y axis in the monotherapy study 14.3 Migraine The results of a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trial demonstrated the effectiveness of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in the prophylactic treatment of migraine headache. This trial recruited patients with a history of migraine headaches with or without aura occurring on average twice or more a month for the preceding three months. Patients with cluster or chronic daily headaches were excluded. Women of childbearing potential were allowed in the trial if they were deemed to be practicing an effective method of contraception. Patients who experienced ≥ 2 migraine headaches in the 4-week baseline period were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to divalproex sodium extended-release tablets or placebo and treated for 12 weeks. Patients initiated treatment on 500 mg once daily for one week, and were then increased to 1,000 mg once daily with an option to permanently decrease the dose back to 500 mg once daily during the second week of treatment if intolerance occurred. Ninety-eight of 114 divalproex sodium extended-release tablets-treated patients (86%) and 100 of 110 placebo-treated patients (91%) treated at least two weeks maintained the 1,000 mg once daily dose for the duration of their treatment periods. Treatment outcome was assessed on the basis of reduction in 4-week migraine headache rate in the treatment period compared to the baseline period. Patients (50 male, 187 female) ranging in age from 16 to 69 were treated with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (N = 122) or placebo (N = 115). Four patients were below the age of 18 and 3 were above the age of 65. Two hundred and two patients (101 in each treatment group) completed the treatment period. The mean reduction in 4-week migraine headache rate was 1.2 from a baseline mean of 4.4 in the divalproex sodium extended-release tablets group, versus 0.6 from a baseline mean of 4.2 in the placebo group. The treatment difference was statistically significant (see Figure 3). Figure 3. Mean Reduction In 4-Week Migraine Headache Rates Figure 3. Mean Reduction in 4-Week Migraine Headache Rates

SPL TEXT:
Divalproex Sodium divalproex sodium DIVALPROEX SODIUM VALPROIC ACID AMMONIA SILICON DIOXIDE DIBUTYL SEBACATE ETHYLCELLULOSE, UNSPECIFIED HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (3 MPA.S) HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (6 MPA.S) HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (50 MPA.S) HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE, UNSPECIFIED OLEIC ACID POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 400 POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN M;177 Divalproex Sodium divalproex sodium DIVALPROEX SODIUM VALPROIC ACID AMMONIA SILICON DIOXIDE DIBUTYL SEBACATE ETHYLCELLULOSE, UNSPECIFIED HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (3 MPA.S) HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (6 MPA.S) HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (50 MPA.S) HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE, UNSPECIFIED OLEIC ACID POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 400 POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN M;473