DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Hydromorphone hydrochloride, a hydrogenated ketone of morphine, is an opioid analgesic. Hydromorphone hydrochloride USP is a white to off-white powder. It is soluble in water and sparingly soluble in alcohol. The chemical name of hydromorphone hydrochloride is 4,5-Epoxy-3-hydroxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one hydrochloride. The structural formula is: C 17 H 19 NO 3 ●HCl M.W. 321.80 Each Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablet USP for oral administration, contains 4 mg or 8 mg hydromorphone hydrochloride USP. In addition, the tablets include lactose anhydrous and magnesium stearate. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets USP may contain traces of sodium metabisulfite. Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP contains 5 mg of hydromorphone hydrochloride USP. In addition, other ingredients include FD&C Red No. 40, methyl paraben, propylene glycol, propylparaben, purified water, raspberry blend, saccharin sodium and sorbitol solution. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP may contain traces of sodium metabisulfite. hydromorphone-chem.jpg

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Hydromorphone is a full opioid agonist and is relatively selective for the mu-opioid receptor, although it can bind to other opioid receptors at higher doses. The principal therapeutic action of hydromorphone is analgesia. Like all full opioid agonists, there is no ceiling effect for analgesia with morphine. Clinically, dosage is titrated to provide adequate analgesia and may be limited by adverse reactions, including respiratory and CNS depression. The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown. However, specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are thought to play a role in the analgesic effects of this drug. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on the Central Nervous System Hydromorphone produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers. The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and to electrical stimulation. Hydromorphone causes miosis, even in total darkness. Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic (e.g., pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings). Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations. Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Hydromorphone causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased to the point of spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of sphincter of Oddi, and transient elevations in serum amylase. Effects on the Cardiovascular System Hydromorphone produces peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Manifestations of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes and sweating and/or orthostatic hypotension. Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in humans [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. They also stimulate prolactin, growth hormone (GH) secretion, and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon. Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido, impotence, erectile dysfunction, amenorrhea, or infertility. The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Overall, the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive. Concentration–Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients, especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids. The minimum effective analgesic concentration of hydromorphone for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain, the development of a new pain syndrome, and/or the development of analgesic tolerance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.5 )]. Concentration–Adverse Reaction Relationships There is a relationship between increasing hydromorphone plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose-related opioid adverse reactions such as nausea, vomiting, CNS effects, and respiratory depression. In opioid-tolerant patients, the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid-related adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.5 )]. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The analgesic activity of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride is due to the parent drug, hydromorphone. Hydromorphone is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration and undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism. Exposure of hydromorphone (C max and AUC 0-24 ) is dose-proportional at a dose range of 2 and 8 mg. In vivo bioavailability following single-dose administration of the 8 mg tablet is approximately 24% (coefficient of variation 21%). Bioequivalence between the Hydromorphone Hydrochloride 8 mg tablet and an equivalent dose of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride oral solution has been demonstrated. After oral administration of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride, peak plasma hydromorphone concentrations are generally attained within ½ to 1-hour. Mean (%cv) Dosage Form C max (ng) T max (hrs) AUC (ng*hr/mL) T 1/2 (hrs) 8 mg Tablet 5.5 (33%) 0.74 (34%) 23.7 (28%) 2.6 (18%) 8 mg Oral Solution 5.7 (31%) 0.73 (71%) 24.6 (29%) 2.8 (20%) Food Effects : In a study conducted with a single 8 mg dose of hydromorphone (2 mg hydromorphone immediate-release tablets), food lowered C max by 25%, prolonged T max by 0.8 hour, and increased AUC by 35%. The effects may not be clinically relevant. Distribution At therapeutic plasma levels, hydromorphone is approximately 8% to 19% bound to plasma proteins. After an intravenous bolus dose, the steady state of volume distribution [mean (% cv)] is 302.9 (32%) liters. Elimination The systemic clearance is approximately 1.96 (20%) liters/minute. The terminal elimination half-life of hydromorphone after an intravenous dose is about 2.3 hours. Metabolism : Hydromorphone is extensively metabolized via glucuronidation in the liver, with greater than 95% of the dose metabolized to hydromorphone-3-glucuronide along with minor amounts of 6-hydroxy reduction metabolites. Excretion : Only a small amount of the hydromorphone dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. Most of the dose is excreted as hydromorphone-3-glucuronide along with minor amounts of 6-hydroxy reduction metabolites. Specific Populations Hepatic Impairment : After oral administration of a single 4 mg dose (2 mg hydromorphone immediate-release tablets), mean exposure to hydromorphone (C max and AUC ∞ ) is increased 4-fold in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh Group B) hepatic impairment compared with subjects with normal hepatic function. Due to increased exposure of hydromorphone, patients with moderate hepatic impairment should be started at a lower dose and closely monitored during dose titration. Pharmacokinetics of hydromorphone in severe hepatic impairment patients has not been studied. Further increase in Cmax and AUC of hydromorphone in this group is expected. As such, starting dose should be even more conservative [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Renal Impairment : After oral administration of a single 4 mg dose (2 mg hydromorphone immediate-release tablets), exposure to hydromorphone (C max and AUC 0-48 ) is increased in patients with impaired renal function by 2-fold in moderate (CL cr = 40 to 60 mL/min) and 3-fold in severe (CL cr < 30 mL/min) renal impairment compared with normal subjects (CL cr > 80 mL/min). In addition, in patients with severe renal impairment hydromorphone appeared to be more slowly eliminated with longer terminal elimination half-life (40 hr) compared to patients with normal renal function (15 hr). Patients with moderate renal impairment should be started on a lower dose. Starting doses for patients with severe renal impairment should be even lower. Patients with renal impairment should be closely monitored during dose titration [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. Age: Geriatric Population: In the geriatric population, age has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of hydromorphone. Sex : Sex has little effect on the pharmacokinetics of hydromorphone. Females appear to have higher C max (25%) than males with comparable AUC 0-24 values. The difference observed in C max may not be clinically relevant.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Hydromorphone is a full opioid agonist and is relatively selective for the mu-opioid receptor, although it can bind to other opioid receptors at higher doses. The principal therapeutic action of hydromorphone is analgesia. Like all full opioid agonists, there is no ceiling effect for analgesia with morphine. Clinically, dosage is titrated to provide adequate analgesia and may be limited by adverse reactions, including respiratory and CNS depression. The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown. However, specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are thought to play a role in the analgesic effects of this drug.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )], reserve Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution contain hydromorphone, an opioid agonist, and are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. • Hypersensitivity to hydromorphone, hydromorphone salts, any other components of the product, or sulfite- containing medications (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. • Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to hydromorphone, hydromorphone salts, or sulfite-containing medications. ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: RISK OF MEDICATION ERRORS; ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Risk of Medication Errors Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL can result in accidental overdose and death [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets expose patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient’s risk prior to prescribing Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors and conditions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets or following a dose increase [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Accidental Ingestion Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of hydromorphone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Risks From Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. • Reserve concomitant prescribing of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. • Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. • Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. WARNING: RISK OF MEDICATION ERRORS; ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. • Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL can result in accidental overdose and death. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) • Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution exposes users to risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess patient’s risk before prescribing and monitor regularly for these behaviors and conditions. ( 5.2 ) • Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur. Monitor closely, especially upon initiation or following a dose increase. ( 5.3 ) • Accidental ingestion of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of hydromorphone. ( 5.3 ) • Prolonged use of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. If prolonged opioid use is required in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. ( 5.4 ) • Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate; limit dosages and durations to the minimum required; and follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. ( 5.5 , 7 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) • Usual adult dosage of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is one-half (2.5 mL) to two teaspoonsful (10 mL) (2.5 mg to 10 mg) every 3 to 6 hours. ( 2.2 ) • Usual adult starting dose for Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets is 2 mg to 4 mg, orally, every 4 to 6 hours. ( 2.2 ) • Hepatic Impairment: Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual starting dose, depending on degree of hepatic impairment. ( 2.3 ) • Renal Impairment: Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual starting dose, depending on degree of renal impairment. ( 2.4 ) • Do not stop Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets abruptly in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure the proper dose is communicated and dispensed. When writing prescriptions, include both the total dose in mg and the total dose in volume. Instruct patients to obtain a calibrated measuring cup/syringe for administering Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately. Do not use household teaspoons or tablespoons to measure Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, as using a tablespoon instead of a teaspoon could lead to overdosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. • Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.2 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution Initiate treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a dosing range of one-half (2.5 mL) to two teaspoonsful (10 mL) (2.5 mg to 10 mg) every 3 to 6 hours as needed for pain. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets Initiate treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets in a dosing range of 2 mg to 4 mg, orally, every 4 to 6 hours. Conversion from Other Opioids to Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Hydromorphone Hydrochloride dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. In general, it is safest to start Hydromorphone Hydrochloride therapy by administering half of the usual starting dose every 3 to 6 hours for Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution; and every 4 to 6 hours for Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets. The dose of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride can be gradually adjusted until adequate pain relief and acceptable side effects have been achieved [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Conversion from Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Hydromorphone Hydrochloride The relative bioavailability of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets compared to extended-release hydromorphone hydrochloride is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual Hydromorphone Hydrochloride starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual Hydromorphone Hydrochloride starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. For chronic pain, doses should be administered around-the-clock. A supplemental dose of 5% to 15% of the total daily usage may be administered every two hours on an as-needed basis. 2.6 Discontinuation of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets When a patient who has been taking Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patient develops these signs and symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either by increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Do not abruptly discontinue Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets in a physically dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: • Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Interactions with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Severe Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] • Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] • Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Most common adverse reactions are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp. at 1-800-962-8364 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Serious adverse reactions associated with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride include respiratory depression and apnea and, to a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock, and cardiac arrest. The most common adverse effects are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions Cardiac Disorders : tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations Eye Disorders : vision blurred, diplopia, miosis, visual impairment Gastrointestinal Disorders : constipation, ileus, diarrhea, abdominal pain General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : weakness, feeling abnormal, chills Hepatobiliary Disorders : biliary colic Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : muscle rigidity Nervous System Disorders : headache, tremor, paraesthesia, nystagmus, increased intracranial pressure, syncope, taste alteration, involuntary muscle contractions, presyncope Psychiatric Disorders : agitation, mood altered, nervousness, anxiety, depression, hallucination, disorientation, insomnia, abnormal dreams Renal and Urinary Disorders : urinary retention, urinary hesitation, antidiuretic effects Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders : bronchospasm, laryngospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis Vascular Disorders : flushing, hypotension, hypertension 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of hydromorphone. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Confusional state, convulsions, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dyspnea, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, hepatic enzymes increased, hyperalgesia, hypersensitivity reaction, lethargy, myoclonus, oropharyngeal swelling, peripheral edema, and somnolence. Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Anaphylaxis Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets. Androgen Deficiency Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )].

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Intervention: The use of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping treatment. Examples: Phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine. Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Hydromorphone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. • Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of hydromorphone. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping treatment with an MAOI. ( 7 ) • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride because they may reduce analgesic effect of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 )

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy may cause neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. There are no available data with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride in pregnant women to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, reduced postnatal survival of pups, and decreased were noted following oral treatment of pregnant rats with hydromorphone during gestation and through lactation at doses 0.8 times the human daily dose of 24 mg/day (HDD), respectively. In published studies, neural tube defects were noted following subcutaneous injection of hydromorphone to pregnant hamsters at doses 6.4 times the HDD and soft tissue and skeletal abnormalities were noted following subcutaneous continuous infusion of 3 times the HDD to pregnant mice. No malformations were noted at 4 or 40.5 times the HDD in pregnant rats or rabbits, respectively [see Data]. Based on animal data, advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions : Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Labor or Delivery : Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects in neonates. An opioid antagonist, such as naloxone, must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets is not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor, when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioid analgesics, including Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. However, this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation, which tends to shorten labor. Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. Data Animal Data : Pregnant rats were treated with hydromorphone hydrochloride from Gestation Day 6 to 17 via oral gavage doses of 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg/day (0.4, 2, or 4 times the HDD of 24 mg based on body surface area, respectively). Maternal toxicity was noted in all treatment groups (reduced food consumption and body weights in the two highest dose groups). There was no evidence of malformations or embryotoxicity reported. Pregnant rabbits were treated with hydromorphone hydrochloride from Gestation Day 7 to 19 via oral gavage doses of 10, 25, or 50 mg/kg/day (8.1, 20.3, or 40.5 times the HDD of 24 mg based on body surface area, respectively). Maternal toxicity was noted in the two highest dose groups (reduced food consumption and body weights). There was no evidence of malformations or embryotoxicity reported. In a published study, neural tube defects (exencephaly and cranioschisis) were noted following subcutaneous administration of hydromorphone hydrochloride (19 to 258 mg/kg) on Gestation Day 8 to pregnant hamsters (6.4 to 87.2 times the HDD of 24 mg/day based on body surface area). The findings cannot be clearly attributed to maternal toxicity. No neural tube defects were noted at 14 mg/kg (4.7 times the human daily dose of 24 mg/day). In a published study, CF-1 mice were treated subcutaneously with continuous infusion of 7.5, 15, or 30 mg/kg/day hydromorphone hydrochloride (1.5, 3, or 6.1 times the human daily dose of 24 mg based on body surface area) via implanted osmotic pumps during organogenesis (Gestation Days 7 to 10). Soft tissue malformations (cryptorchidism, cleft palate, malformed ventricles and retina), and skeletal variations (split supraoccipital, checkerboard and split sternebrae, delayed ossification of the paws and ectopic ossification sites) were observed at doses 3 times the human dose of 24 mg/day based on body surface area. The findings cannot be clearly attributed to maternal toxicity. Increased pup mortality and decreased pup body weights were noted at 0.8 and 2 times the human daily dose of 24 mg in a study in which pregnant rats were treated with hydromorphone hydrochloride from Gestation Day 7 to Lactation Day 20 via oral gavage doses of 0, 0.5, 2, or 5 mg/kg/day (0.2, 0.8, or 2 times the HDD of 24 mg based on body surface area, respectively). Maternal toxicity (decreased food consumption and body weight gain) was also noted at the two highest doses tested.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) may have increased sensitivity to hydromorphone. In general, use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids, and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid-tolerant or when opioids were co-administered with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dosage of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride slowly in geriatric patients and monitor closely for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Hydromorphone is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdose with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets can be manifested by respiratory depression, somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, constricted pupils, and, in some cases, pulmonary edema, bradycardia, hypotension, partial or complete airway obstruction, atypical snoring, and death. Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose, priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation, if needed. Employ other supportive measures (including oxygen and vasopressors) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated. Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life-support techniques. The opioid antagonists, naloxone or nalmefene, are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose. For clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to hydromorphone overdose, administer an opioid antagonist. Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to hydromorphone overdose. Because the duration of opioid reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of hydromorphone in Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably reestablished. If the response to an opioid antagonist is suboptimal or only brief in nature, administer additional antagonist as directed by the product’s prescribing information. In an individual physically dependent on opioids, administration of the recommended usual dosage of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered. If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient, administration of the antagonist should be initiated with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Analgesic effects of single doses of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution administered to patients with post-surgical pain have been studied in double-blind controlled trials. In one study, both 5 mg and 10 mg of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution provided significantly more analgesia than placebo. In another trial, 5 mg and 10 mg of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution were compared to 30 mg and 60 mg of morphine sulfate oral liquid. The pain relief provided by 5 mg and 10 mg Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution was comparable to 30 mg and 60 mg oral morphine sulfate, respectively.

SPL TEXT:
Hydromorphone Hydrochloride hydromorphone hydrochloride HYDROMORPHONE HYDROCHLORIDE HYDROMORPHONE ANHYDROUS LACTOSE MAGNESIUM STEARATE flat-faced 54;425