DRUG NAME: Tyrvaya
GENERIC NAME: VARENICLINE
MANUFACTURER: Oyster Point Pharma, Inc.
ROUTE: NASAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION TYRVAYA nasal spray contains varenicline which is a partial nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist of α4β2, α4α6β2, α3β4, and α3α5β4 receptors and a full α7 receptor agonist. Varenicline, as the tartrate salt, is a powder which is a white to off-white to slightly yellow solid whose chemical name is 7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,10-methano-6 H -pyrazino[2,3-h][3]benzazepine, (2 R ,3 R )-2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate (1:1). It is highly soluble in water. Varenicline tartrate has a molecular weight of 361.35 Daltons and a molecular formula of C 13 H 13 N 3 ⋅ C 4 H 6 O 6 . The chemical structure is: TYRVAYA (varenicline solution) nasal spray is formulated for intranasal use as a clear 0.6 mg/mL strength solution, at pH 6.4. After priming [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] , each actuation delivers a 0.05 mL spray containing 0.03 mg varenicline free base, equivalent to 0.05 mg of varenicline tartrate. The formulation also contains the following inactive ingredients: sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate, monobasic sodium phosphate anhydrous, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide and/or hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH) and water for injection. The chemical structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The efficacy of TYRVAYA in dry eye disease is believed to be the result of varenicline's activity at heteromeric sub-type(s) of the nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptor where its binding produces agonist activity and activates the trigeminal parasympathetic pathway resulting in increased production of basal tear film as a treatment for dry eye disease. Varenicline binds with high affinity and selectivity at human α4β2, α4α6β2, α3β4, α3α5β4 and α7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption/Distribution Following administration of 0.12 mg (0.06 mg per 50-µL spray in each nostril), a strength of varenicline that is higher than the labeled concentration, varenicline can be detected in plasma by 5 minutes, generally achieves peak concentration within 2 hours, with a mean C max of 0.34 ng/mL, and has an AUC 0-inf of 7.46 h*ng/mL. The systemic exposure (AUC 0-inf ) following this intranasal dose was approximately 7.5% of the exposure observed following a 1 mg oral dose of varenicline. Metabolism/Elimination The mean ± SD elimination half-life of varenicline after intranasal administration is approximately 19 ± 10 hours. Varenicline undergoes minimal metabolism with 92% excreted as unchanged drug in the urine.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The efficacy of TYRVAYA in dry eye disease is believed to be the result of varenicline's activity at heteromeric sub-type(s) of the nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptor where its binding produces agonist activity and activates the trigeminal parasympathetic pathway resulting in increased production of basal tear film as a treatment for dry eye disease. Varenicline binds with high affinity and selectivity at human α4β2, α4α6β2, α3β4, α3α5β4 and α7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TYRVAYA (varenicline solution) nasal spray is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease. TYRVAYA (varenicline solution) nasal spray is a cholinergic agonist indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • One spray in each nostril twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart). ( 2.1 ) • Prime with seven (7) actuations before initial use. Re-prime with 1 actuation if not used for more than five (5) days. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Spray TYRVAYA once in each nostril twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart). If a dose is missed, resume regular dosing at the next scheduled dose time. 2.2 Priming Instructions Priming : Prime TYRVAYA before initial use by pumping seven (7) actuations into the air away from the face. When TYRVAYA has not been used for more than 5 days, re-prime with 1 spray into the air. Do not shake.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction reported in 82% of patients was sneezing. Events that were reported in 5-16% of patients were cough, throat irritation, and instillation-site (nose) irritation. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Oyster Point Pharma at 1-877-EYE-0123 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In three clinical studies of dry eye disease conducted with varenicline solution nasal spray, 349 patients received at least 1 dose of TYRVAYA. The majority of patients had 31 days of treatment exposure, with a maximum exposure of 105 days. The most common adverse reactions reported in 82% of TYRVAYA treated patients was sneezing. Other common adverse reactions that were reported in >5% of patients include cough (16%), throat irritation (13%), and instillation-site (nose) irritation (8%).

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on TYRVAYA use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks. In animal reproduction studies, varenicline did not produce malformations at clinically relevant doses. All pregnancies have a risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the US general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Data Animal Data Pregnant rats and rabbits received varenicline succinate during organogenesis at oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg/kg/day, respectively. While no fetal structural abnormalities occurred in either species, maternal toxicity, characterized by reduced body weight gain, and reduced fetal weights occurred in rabbits at the highest dose (4864 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). In a pre- and postnatal development study, pregnant rats received up to 15 mg/kg/day of oral varenicline succinate from organogenesis through lactation. Maternal toxicity, characterized by a decrease in body weight gain, was observed at 15 mg/kg/day (1216 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). Decreased fertility and increased auditory startle response occurred in offspring at the highest maternal dose of 15 mg/kg/day.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of TYRVAYA in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In three clinical studies of dry eye disease conducted with varenicline solution nasal spray, 349 patients received at least 1 dose of TYRVAYA. The majority of patients had 31 days of treatment exposure, with a maximum exposure of 105 days. The most common adverse reactions reported in 82% of TYRVAYA treated patients was sneezing. Other common adverse reactions that were reported in >5% of patients include cough (16%), throat irritation (13%), and instillation-site (nose) irritation (8%).

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling • Store TYRVAYA nasal spray at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). Do not freeze. • Discard TYRVAYA nasal spray bottle 30 days after opening bottle.

SPL TEXT:
Tyrvaya varenicline VARENICLINE TARTRATE VARENICLINE SODIUM PHOSPHATE, DIBASIC, HEPTAHYDRATE SODIUM PHOSPHATE, MONOBASIC, ANHYDROUS SODIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM HYDROXIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER