DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP (SR), an antidepressant of the aminoketone class, are chemically unrelated to tricyclic, tetracyclic, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, or other known antidepressant agents. Its structure closely resembles that of diethylpropion; it is related to phenylethylamines. It is designated as (±)-1-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-[(1,1-dimethylethyl)amino]-1-propanone hydrochloride. The molecular weight is 276.2. The molecular formula is C 13 H 18 ClNO•HCl. Bupropion hydrochloride powder is white, crystalline, and highly soluble in water. It has a bitter taste and produces the sensation of local anesthesia on the oral mucosa. The structural formula is: Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP (SR) are supplied for oral administration as 100 mg (aquamarine), 150 mg (plum), and 200 mg (light pink), film-coated, sustained-release tablets. Each tablet contains the labeled amount of bupropion hydrochloride and the inactive ingredients: carnauba wax, hydroxypropyl cellulose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, hypromellose, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol and polysorbate. In addition, the 100 mg tablet contains FD&C blue No. 1 lake and 150 mg tablet contains FD&C red No. 40 lake and FD&C blue No. 2 lake and the 200 mg tablet contains FD&C red No. 40 lake and FD&C yellow No. 6 lake. This product meets USP Drug Release Test #2. Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The exact mechanism of the antidepressant action of bupropion is not known, but is presumed to be related to noradrenergic and/or dopaminergic mechanisms. Bupropion is a relatively weak inhibitor of the neuronal reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine, and does not inhibit the reuptake of serotonin. Bupropion does not inhibit monoamine oxidase. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Bupropion is a racemic mixture. The pharmacological activity and pharmacokinetics of the individual enantiomers have not been studied. The mean elimination half-life (±SD) of bupropion after chronic dosing is 21 (±9) hours, and steady-state plasma concentrations of bupropion are reached within 8 days. Absorption The absolute bioavailability of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in humans has not been determined because an intravenous formulation for human use is not available. However, it appears likely that only a small proportion of any orally administered dose reaches the systemic circulation intact. In rat and dog studies, the bioavailability of bupropion ranged from 5% to 20%. In humans, following oral administration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR), peak plasma concentration (C max ) of bupropion is usually achieved within 3 hours. In a trial comparing chronic dosing with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) 150 mg twice daily to bupropion immediate-release formulation 100 mg 3 times daily, the steady state C max for bupropion after bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) administration was approximately 85% of those achieved after bupropion immediate-release formulation administration. Exposure (AUC) to bupropion was equivalent for both formulations. Bioequivalence was also demonstrated for all three major active metabolites (i.e., hydroxybupropion, threohydrobupropion and erythrohydrobupropion) for both C max and AUC. Thus, at steady state, bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) given twice daily, and the immediate-release formulation of bupropion given 3 times daily, are essentially bioequivalent for both bupropion and the 3 quantitatively important metabolites. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) can be taken with or without food. Bupropion C max and AUC were increased by 11% to 35% and 16% to 19%, respectively, when bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) was administered with food to healthy volunteers in three trials. The food effect is not considered clinically significant. Distribution In vitro tests show that bupropion is 84% bound to human plasma proteins at concentrations up to 200 mcg per mL. The extent of protein binding of the hydroxybupropion metabolite is similar to that for bupropion; whereas, the extent of protein binding of the threohydrobupropion metabolite is about half that seen with bupropion. Metabolism Bupropion is extensively metabolized in humans. Three metabolites are active: hydroxybupropion, which is formed via hydroxylation of the tert -butyl group of bupropion, and the amino-alcohol isomers, threohydrobupropion and erythrohydrobupropion, which are formed via reduction of the carbonyl group. In vitro findings suggest that CYP2B6 is the principal isoenzyme involved in the formation of hydroxybupropion, while cytochrome P450 enzymes are not involved in the formation of threohydrobupropion. Oxidation of the bupropion side chain results in the formation of a glycine conjugate of meta-chlorobenzoic acid, which is then excreted as the major urinary metabolite. The potency and toxicity of the metabolites relative to bupropion have not been fully characterized. However, it has been demonstrated in an antidepressant screening test in mice that hydroxybupropion is one-half as potent as bupropion, while threohydrobupropion and erythrohydrobupropion are 5-fold less potent than bupropion. This may be of clinical importance because the plasma concentrations of the metabolites are as high as or higher than those of bupropion. Following a single-dose administration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in humans, C max of hydroxybupropion occurs approximately 6 hours post-dose and is approximately 10 times the peak level of the parent drug at steady state. The elimination half-life of hydroxybupropion is approximately 20 (±5) hours and its AUC at steady state is about 17 times that of bupropion. The times to peak concentrations for the erythrohydrobupropion and threohydrobupropion metabolites are similar to that of the hydroxybupropion metabolite. However, their elimination half-lives are longer, 33 (±10) and 37 (±13) hours, respectively, and steady-state AUCs are 1.5 and 7 times that of bupropion, respectively. Bupropion and its metabolites exhibit linear kinetics following chronic administration of 300 to 450 mg per day. Elimination Following oral administration of 200 mg of 14 C-bupropion in humans, 87% and 10% of the radioactive dose were recovered in the urine and feces, respectively. Only 0.5% of the oral dose was excreted as unchanged bupropion. Population Subgroups Factors or conditions altering metabolic capacity (e.g., liver disease, congestive heart failure [CHF], age, concomitant medications, etc.) or elimination may be expected to influence the degree and extent of accumulation of the active metabolites of bupropion. The elimination of the major metabolites of bupropion may be affected by reduced renal or hepatic function because they are moderately polar compounds and are likely to undergo further metabolism or conjugation in the liver prior to urinary excretion. Renal Impairment There is limited information on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion in patients with renal impairment. An inter-trial comparison between normal subjects and subjects with end-stage renal failure demonstrated that the parent drug C max and AUC values were comparable in the 2 groups, whereas the hydroxybupropion and threohydrobupropion metabolites had a 2.3- and 2.8-fold increase, respectively, in AUC for subjects with end-stage renal failure. A second trial, comparing normal subjects and subjects with moderate-to-severe renal impairment (GFR 30.9 ± 10.8 mL per min), showed that after a single 150-mg dose of sustained-release bupropion, exposure to bupropion was approximately 2-fold higher in subjects with impaired renal function, while levels of the hydroxybupropion and threo/erythrohydrobupropion (combined) metabolites were similar in the 2 groups. Bupropion is extensively metabolized in the liver to active metabolites, which are further metabolized and subsequently excreted by the kidneys. The elimination of the major metabolites of bupropion may be reduced by impaired renal function. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment and a reduced frequency and/or dose should be considered [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] . Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion was characterized in 2 single-dose trials, one in subjects with alcoholic liver disease and one in subjects with mild-to-severe cirrhosis. The first trial demonstrated that the half-life of hydroxybupropion was significantly longer in 8 subjects with alcoholic liver disease than in 8 healthy volunteers (32 ± 14 hours versus 21 ± 5 hours, respectively). Although not statistically significant, the AUCs for bupropion and hydroxybupropion were more variable and tended to be greater (by 53% to 57%) in volunteers with alcoholic liver disease. The differences in half-life for bupropion and the other metabolites in the 2 groups were minimal. The second trial demonstrated no statistically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and its active metabolites in 9 subjects with mild-to-moderate hepatic cirrhosis compared with 8 healthy volunteers. However, more variability was observed in some of the pharmacokinetic parameters for bupropion (AUC, C max , and T max ) and its active metabolites (t ½ ) in subjects with mild–to-moderate hepatic cirrhosis. In subjects with severe hepatic cirrhosis, significant alterations in the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and its metabolites were seen ( Table 5 ). Table 5. Pharmacokinetics of Bupropion and Metabolites in Patients With Severe Hepatic Cirrhosis: Ratio Relative to Healthy Matched Controls C max AUC t 1/2 T max = Difference. Bupropion 1.69 3.12 1.43 0.5 h Hydroxybupropion 0.31 1.28 3.88 19 h Threo/erythrohydrobupropion amino alcohol 0.69 2.48 1.96 20 h Left Ventricular Dysfunction During a chronic dosing trial with bupropion in 14 depressed subjects with left ventricular dysfunction (history of CHF or an enlarged heart on x-ray), there was no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion or its metabolites, compared with healthy volunteers. Age The effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and its metabolites have not been fully characterized, but an exploration of steady-state bupropion concentrations from several depression efficacy trials involving subjects dosed in a range of 300 to 750 mg per day, on a 3-times-daily schedule, revealed no relationship between age (18 to 83 years) and plasma concentration of bupropion. A single-dose pharmacokinetic trial demonstrated that the disposition of bupropion and its metabolites in elderly subjects was similar to that of younger subjects. These data suggest there is no prominent effect of age on bupropion concentration; however, another single-and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics trial suggested that the elderly are at increased risk for accumulation of bupropion and its metabolites [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8. 5) ] . Gender Pooled analysis of bupropion pharmacokinetic data from 90 healthy male and 90 healthy female volunteers revealed no sex-related differences in the peak plasma concentrations of bupropion. The mean systemic exposure (AUC) was approximately 13% higher in male volunteers compared with female volunteers. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Smokers The effects of cigarette smoking on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion were studied in 34 healthy male and female volunteers; 17 were chronic cigarette smokers and 17 were nonsmokers. Following oral administration of a single 150-mg dose of bupropion, there were no statistically significant differences in C max , half-life, T max , AUC, or clearance of bupropion or its active metabolites between smokers and nonsmokers. Drug Interactions Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) In vitro studies indicate that bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Therefore, the potential exists for drug interactions between bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP2B6. In addition, in vitro studies suggest that paroxetine, sertraline, norfluoxetine, fluvoxamine, and nelfinavir inhibit the hydroxylation of bupropion. Inhibitors of CYP2B6 Ticlopidine, Clopidogrel In a trial in healthy male volunteers, clopidogrel 75 mg once daily or ticlopidine 250 mg twice daily increased exposures (C max and AUC) of bupropion by 40% and 60% for clopidogrel, and by 38% and 85% for ticlopidine, respectively. The exposures (C max and AUC) of hydroxybupropion were decreased 50% and 52%, respectively, by clopidogrel, and 78% and 84%, respectively, by ticlopidine. This effect is thought to be due to the inhibition of the CYP2B6-catalyzed bupropion hydroxylation. Prasugrel Prasugrel is a weak inhibitor of CYP2B6. In healthy subjects, prasugrel increased bupropion C max and AUC values by 14% and 18%, respectively, and decreased C max and AUC values of hydroxybupropion, an active metabolite of bupropion, by 32% and 24%, respectively. Cimetidine The threohydrobupropion metabolite of bupropion does not appear to be produced by cytochrome P450 enzymes. The effects of concomitant administration of cimetidine on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and its active metabolites were studied in 24 healthy young male volunteers. Following oral administration of bupropion 300 mg with and without cimetidine 800 mg, the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and hydroxybupropion were unaffected. However, there were 16% and 32% increases in the AUC and C max , respectively, of the combined moieties of threohydrobupropion and erythrohydrobupropion. Citalopram Citalopram did not affect the pharmacokinetics of bupropion and its three metabolites. Inducers of CYP2B6 Ritonavir and Lopinavir In a healthy volunteer trial, ritonavir 100 mg twice daily reduced the AUC and C max of bupropion by 22% and 21%, respectively. The exposure of the hydroxybupropion metabolite was decreased by 23%, the threohydrobupropion decreased by 38%, and the erythrohydrobupropion decreased by 48%. In a second healthy volunteer trial, ritonavir at a dose of 600 mg twice daily decreased the AUC and the C max of bupropion by 66% and 62%, respectively. The exposure of the hydroxybupropion metabolite was decreased by 78%, the threohydrobupropion decreased by 50%, and the erythrohydrobupropion decreased by 68%. In another healthy volunteer trial, lopinavir 400 mg/ritonavir 100 mg twice daily decreased bupropion AUC and C max by 57%. The AUC and C max of hydroxybupropion were decreased by 50% and 31%, respectively. Efavirenz In a trial in healthy volunteers, efavirenz 600 mg once daily for 2 weeks reduced the AUC and C max of bupropion by approximately 55% and 34%, respectively. The AUC of hydroxybupropion was unchanged, whereas C max of hydroxybupropion was increased by 50%. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion. Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) to Affect Other Drugs Animal data indicated that bupropion may be an inducer of drug-metabolizing enzymes in humans. In one trial, following chronic administration of bupropion 100 mg three times daily to 8 healthy male volunteers for 14 days, there was no evidence of induction of its own metabolism. Nevertheless, there may be potential for clinically important alterations of blood levels of co-administered drugs. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 In vitro , bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. In a clinical trial of 15 male subjects (ages 19 to 35 years) who were extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, bupropion 300 mg per day followed by a single dose of 50 mg desipramine increased the C max , AUC, and t 1/2 of desipramine by an average of approximately 2-, 5-, and 2-fold, respectively. The effect was present for at least 7 days after the last dose of bupropion. Concomitant use of bupropion with other drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 has not been formally studied. Citalopram Although citalopram is not primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, in one trial bupropion increased the C max and AUC of citalopram by 30% and 40%, respectively. Lamotrigine Multiple oral doses of bupropion had no statistically significant effects on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine in 12 healthy volunteers. Digoxin Literature data showed that digoxin exposure was decreased when a single oral dose of 0.5-mg digoxin was administered 24 hours after a single oral dose of extended-release 150-mg bupropion in healthy volunteers.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The exact mechanism of the antidepressant action of bupropion is not known, but is presumed to be related to noradrenergic and/or dopaminergic mechanisms. Bupropion is a relatively weak inhibitor of the neuronal reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine, and does not inhibit the reuptake of serotonin. Bupropion does not inhibit monoamine oxidase.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM ) . The efficacy of bupropion in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in two 4-week controlled inpatient trials and one 6-week controlled outpatient trial of adult subjects with MDD [ seeClinical Studies ( 14 )] . The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 44 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [ seeClinical Studies ( 14 )]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with a seizure disorder. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with the immediate-release formulation of bupropion [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is contraindicated. There is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions when bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are used concomitantly with MAOIs. The use of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI is also contraindicated. Starting bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Seizure disorder. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, antiepileptic drugs. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Do not use bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). ( 4 , 5.8 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term trials. These trials did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in subjects over age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in subjects aged 65 and older [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . In patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy, monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents and young adults taking antidepressants. ( 5.1 ) Monitor for worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. ( 5.1 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting Dose: 150 mg per day ( 2.1 ) General: Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) After 3 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg per day, given as 150 mg twice daily at an interval of at least 8 hours. ( 2.1 ) Usual target dose: 300 mg per day as 150 mg twice daily. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose: 400 mg per day, given as 200 mg twice daily, for patients not responding to 300 mg per day. ( 2.1 ) Periodically reassess the dose and need for maintenance treatment. ( 2.1 ) Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 100 mg daily or 150 mg every other day. ( 2.2 , 8.7 ) Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.2 , 8.7 ) Renal Impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency. ( 2.3 , 8.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions for Use To minimize the risk of seizure, increase the dose gradually [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be swallowed whole and not crushed, divided, or chewed. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be taken with or without food. The usual adult target dose for bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is 300 mg per day, given as 150 mg twice daily. Initiate dosing with 150 mg per day given as a single daily dose in the morning. After 3 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to the 300-mg-per-day target dose, given as 150 mg twice daily. There should be an interval of at least 8 hours between successive doses. A maximum of 400 mg per day, given as 200 mg twice daily, may be considered for patients in whom no clinical improvement is noted after several weeks of treatment at 300 mg per day. To avoid high peak concentrations of bupropion and/or its metabolites, do not exceed 200 mg in any single dose. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of antidepressant drug treatment beyond the response in the acute episode. It is unknown whether the dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose that provided an initial response. Periodically reassess the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment. 2.2 Dose Adjustment in Patients With Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 7 to 15), the maximum dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is 100 mg per day or 150 mg every other day. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 5 to 6), consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing [ seeUse in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Dose Adjustment in Patients With Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in patients with renal impairment (Glomerular Filtration Rate less than 90 mL per min) [ seeUse in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Switching a Patient to or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [ seeContraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )]. 2.5 Use of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) With Reversible MAOIs Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. Drug interactions can increase the risk of hypertensive reactions. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [ seeContraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )]. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of hypertensive reactions in a particular patient, bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of a drug interaction with such use [ seeContraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Suicidal thoughts and behaviors in adolescents and young adults [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Neuropsychiatric symptoms and suicide risk in smoking cessation treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Seizure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Activation of mania or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] Psychosis and other neuropsychiatric reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Angle-Closure Glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ] Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥5% and ≥2% more than placebo rate) are: headache, dry mouth, nausea, insomnia, dizziness, pharyngitis, constipation, agitation, anxiety, abdominal pain, tinnitus, tremor, palpitation, myalgia, sweating, rash, and anorexia. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment In placebo-controlled clinical trials, 4%, 9%, and 11% of the placebo, 300-mg-per-day, and 400-mg-per-day groups, respectively, discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions. The specific adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in at least 1% of the 300-mg-per-day or 400-mg-per-day groups and at a rate at least twice the placebo rate are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Treatment Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials Adverse Reaction Placebo (n = 385) Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 300 mg/day (n = 376) Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 400 mg/day (n = 114) Rash Nausea Agitation Migraine 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 2.4% 0.8% 0.3% 0.0% 0.9% 1.8% 1.8% 1.8% Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions from Table 3 occurring in at least 5% of subjects treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and at a rate at least twice the placebo rate are listed below for the 300 and 400-mg-per-day dose groups. Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-release Tablets (SR) 300 mg per day Anorexia, dry mouth, rash, sweating, tinnitus, and tremor. Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-release Tablets (SR) 400 mg per day Abdominal pain, agitation, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, insomnia, myalgia, nausea, palpitation, pharyngitis, sweating, tinnitus, and urinary frequency. Adverse reactions reported in placebo-controlled trials are presented in Table 3 . Reported adverse reactions were classified using a COSTART-based Dictionary. Table 3. Adverse Reactions Reported by at Least 1% of Subjects and at a Greater Frequency than Placebo in Controlled Clinical Trials Body System/ Adverse Reaction Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 300 mg/day (n = 376) Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 400 mg/day (n = 114) Placebo (n = 385) Body (General) Headache Infection Abdominal pain Asthenia Chest pain Pain Fever 26% 8% 3% 2% 3% 2% 1% 25% 9% 9% 4% 4% 3% 2% 23% 6% 2% 2% 1% 2% --- Hyphen denotes adverse events occurring in greater than 0 but less than 0.5% of subjects. Cardiovascular Palpitation Flushing Migraine Hot flashes 2% 1% 1% 1% 6% 4% 4% 3% 2% --- 1% 1% Digestive Dry mouth Nausea Constipation Diarrhea Anorexia Vomiting Dysphagia 17% 13% 10% 5% 5% 4% 0% 24% 18% 5% 7% 3% 2% 2% 7% 8% 7% 6% 2% 2% 0% Musculoskeletal Myalgia Arthralgia Arthritis Twitch 2% 1% 0% 1% 6% 4% 2% 2% 3% 1% 0% --- Nervous system Insomnia Dizziness Agitation Anxiety Tremor Nervousness Somnolence Irritability Memory decreased Paresthesia Central nervous system stimulation 11% 7% 3% 5% 6% 5% 2% 3% --- 1% 2% 16% 11% 9% 6% 3% 3% 3% 2% 3% 2% 1% 6% 5% 2% 3% 1% 3% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% Respiratory Pharyngitis Sinusitis Increased cough 3% 3% 1% 11% 1% 2% 2% 2% 1% Skin Sweating Rash Pruritus Urticaria 6% 5% 2% 2% 5% 4% 4% 1% 2% 1% 2% 0% Special senses Tinnitus Taste perversion Blurred vision or diplopia 6% 2% 3% 6% 4% 2% 2% --- 2% Urogenital Urinary frequency Urinary urgency Vaginal hemorrhage Incidence based on the number of female subjects. Urinary tract infection 2% --- 0% 1% 5% 2% 2% 0% 2% 0% --- --- Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Development of Bupropion In addition to the adverse reactions noted above, the following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with the sustained-release formulation of bupropion in depressed subjects and in nondepressed smokers, as well as in clinical trials with the immediate-release formulation of bupropion. Adverse reaction frequencies represent the proportion of subjects who experienced a treatment-emergent adverse reaction on at least one occasion in placebo-controlled trials for depression (n=987) or smoking cessation (n=1,013), or subjects who experienced an adverse reaction requiring discontinuation of treatment in an open-label surveillance trial with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) (n=3,100). All treatment-emergent adverse reactions are included except those listed in Table 3 , those listed in other safety-related sections of the prescribing information, those subsumed under COSTART terms that are either overly general or excessively specific so as to be uninformative, those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug, and those that were not serious and occurred in fewer than 2 subjects. Adverse reactions are further categorized by body system and listed in order of decreasing frequency according to the following definitions of frequency: Frequent adverse reactions are defined as those occurring in at least 1/100 subjects. Infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1,000 subjects, while rare events are those occurring in less than 1/1,000 subjects. Body (General) Infrequent were chills, facial edema, and photosensitivity. Rare was malaise. Cardiovascular Infrequent were postural hypotension, stroke, tachycardia, and vasodilation. Rare were syncope and myocardial infarction. Digestive Infrequent were abnormal liver function, bruxism, gastric reflux, gingivitis, increased salivation, jaundice, mouth ulcers, stomatitis, and thirst. Rare was edema of tongue. Hemic and Lymphatic Infrequent was ecchymosis. Metabolic and Nutritional Infrequent were edema and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal Infrequent were leg cramps. Nervous System Infrequent were abnormal coordination, decreased libido, depersonalization, dysphoria, emotional lability, hostility, hyperkinesia, hypertonia, hypesthesia, suicidal ideation, and vertigo. Rare were amnesia, ataxia, derealization, and hypomania. Respiratory Rare was bronchospasm. Special Senses Infrequent were accommodation abnormality and dry eye. Urogenital Infrequent were impotence, polyuria, and prostate disorder. Changes in Body Weight In placebo-controlled trials, subjects experienced weight gain or weight loss as shown in Table 4 . Table 4. Incidence of Weight Gain and Weight Loss (≥5 lbs) in Placebo-Controlled Trials Weight Change Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 300 mg/day (n = 339) Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) 400 mg/day (n = 112) Placebo (n = 347) Gained >5 lbs Lost >5 lbs 3% 14% 2% 19% 4% 6% In clinical trials conducted with the immediate-release formulation of bupropion, 35% of subjects receiving tricyclic antidepressants gained weight, compared with 9% of subjects treated with the immediate-release formulation of bupropion. If weight loss is a major presenting sign of a patient’s depressive illness, the anorectic and/or weight-reducing potential of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be considered. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and are not described elsewhere in the label. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body (General) Arthralgia, myalgia, and fever with rash and other symptoms suggestive of delayed hypersensitivity. These symptoms may resemble serum sickness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ] . Cardiovascular Complete atrioventricular block, extrasystoles, hypotension, hypertension (in some cases severe), phlebitis, and pulmonary embolism. Digestive Colitis, esophagitis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, gum hemorrhage, hepatitis, intestinal perforation, pancreatitis, and stomach ulcer. Endocrine Hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. Hemic and Lymphatic Anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia. Altered PT and/or INR, infrequently associated with hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications, were observed when bupropion was coadministered with warfarin. Metabolic and Nutritional Glycosuria. Musculoskeletal Muscle rigidity/fever/rhabdomyolysis and muscle weakness. Nervous System Abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG), aggression, akinesia, aphasia, coma, completed suicide, delirium, delusions, dysarthria, euphoria, extrapyramidal syndrome, (dyskinesia, dystonia, hypokinesia, parkinsonism), hallucinations, increased libido, manic reaction, neuralgia, neuropathy, paranoid ideation, restlessness, suicide attempt, and unmasking tardive dyskinesia. Respiratory Pneumonia. Skin Alopecia, angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, hirsutism, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Special Senses Deafness, increased intraocular pressure, and mydriasis. Urogenital Abnormal ejaculation, cystitis, dyspareunia, dysuria, gynecomastia, menopause, painful erection, salpingitis, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, and vaginitis.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2B6 inducers: Dose increase may be necessary if coadministered with CYP2B6 inducers (e.g., ritonavir, lopinavir, efavirenz, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) based on clinical response, but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. ( 7.1 ) Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6: Bupropion inhibits CYP2D6 and can increase concentrations of: antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide). Consider dose reduction when using with bupropion. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin: May decrease plasma digoxin levels. Monitor digoxin levels. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that lower seizure threshold: Dose bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with caution. ( 5.3 , 7.3 ) Dopaminergic drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). ( 7.4 ) MAOIs: Increased risk of hypertensive reactions can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). ( 7.6 ) Drug-laboratory test interactions: bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) can cause false-positive urine test results for amphetamines. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) Bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Therefore, the potential exists for drug interactions between bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP2B6. Inhibitors of CYP2B6 Ticlopidine and Clopidogrel Concomitant treatment with these drugs can increase bupropion exposure but decrease hydroxybupropion exposure. Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be necessary when coadministered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Inducers of CYP2B6 Ritonavir, Lopinavir, and Efavirenz Concomitant treatment with these drugs can decrease bupropion and hydroxybupropion exposure. Dosage increase of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be necessary when coadministered with ritonavir, lopinavir, or efavirenz [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. 7.2 Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) to Affect Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, coadministration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 can increase the exposures of drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6. Such drugs include certain antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, and sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone and flecainide). When used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR), it may be necessary to decrease the dose of these CYP2D6 substrates, particularly for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. Drugs that require metabolic activation by CYP2D6 to be effective (e.g., tamoxifen) theoretically could have reduced efficacy when administered concomitantly with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Digoxin Coadministration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with digoxin may decrease plasma digoxin levels. Monitor plasma digoxin levels in patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.3 Drugs that Lower Seizure Threshold Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with other drugs that lower seizure threshold (e.g., other bupropion products, antipsychotics, antidepressants, theophylline, or systemic corticosteroids). Use low initial doses and increase the dose gradually [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. 7.4 Dopaminergic Drugs (Levodopa and Amantadine) Bupropion, levodopa, and amantadine have dopamine agonist effects. CNS toxicity has been reported when bupropion was coadministered with levodopa or amantadine. Adverse reactions have included restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness. It is presumed that the toxicity results from cumulative dopamine agonist effects. Use caution when administering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) concomitantly with these drugs. 7.5 Use With Alcohol In postmarketing experience, there have been rare reports of adverse neuropsychiatric events or reduced alcohol tolerance in patients who were drinking alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be minimized or avoided. 7.6 MAO Inhibitors Bupropion inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine. Concomitant use of MAOIs and bupropion is contraindicated because there is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions if bupropion is used concomitantly with MAOIs. Studies in animals demonstrate that the acute toxicity of bupropion is enhanced by the MAO inhibitor phenelzine. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) and Contraindications ( 4 ) ] . 7.7 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for amphetamines have been reported in patients taking bupropion. This is due to lack of specificity of some screening tests. False-positive test results may result even following discontinuation of bupropion therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish bupropion from amphetamines.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary Data from epidemiological studies of pregnant women exposed to bupropion in the first trimester indicate no increased risk of congenital malformations overall. All pregnancies, regardless of drug exposure, have a background rate of 2% to 4% for major malformations, and 15% to 20% for pregnancy loss. No clear evidence of teratogenic activity was found in reproductive developmental studies conducted in rats and rabbits; however, in rabbits, slightly increased incidences of fetal malformations and skeletal variations were observed at doses approximately equal to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) and greater and decreased fetal weights were seen at doses twice the MRHD and greater. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Clinical Considerations Consider the risks of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medications during pregnancy and postpartum. Human Data Data from the international bupropion Pregnancy Registry (675 first trimester exposures) and a retrospective cohort study using the United Healthcare database (1,213 first trimester exposures) did not show an increased risk for malformations overall. No increased risk for cardiovascular malformations overall has been observed after bupropion exposure during the first trimester. The prospectively observed rate of cardiovascular malformations in pregnancies with exposure to bupropion in the first trimester from the international Pregnancy Registry was 1.3% (9 cardiovascular malformations/675 first-trimester maternal bupropion exposures), which is similar to the background rate of cardiovascular malformations (approximately 1%). Data from the United Healthcare database and a case-control study (6,853 infants with cardiovascular malformations and 5,763 with non-cardiovascular malformations) from the National Birth Defects Prevention Study (NBDPS) did not show an increased risk for cardiovascular malformations overall after bupropion exposure during the first trimester. Study findings on bupropion exposure during the first trimester and risk for left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) are inconsistent and do not allow conclusions regarding a possible association. The United Healthcare database lacked sufficient power to evaluate this association; the NBDPS found increased risk for LVOTO (n = 10; adjusted OR = 2.6; 95% CI: 1.2, 5.7), and the Slone Epidemiology case control study did not find increased risk for LVOTO. Study findings on bupropion exposure during the first trimester and risk for ventricular septal defect (VSD) are inconsistent and do not allow conclusions regarding a possible association. The Slone Epidemiology Study found an increased risk for VSD following first trimester maternal bupropion exposure (n = 17; adjusted OR = 2.5; 95% CI: 1.3, 5.0) but did not find increased risk for any other cardiovascular malformations studied (including LVOTO as above). The NBDPS and United Healthcare database study did not find an association between first trimester maternal bupropion exposure and VSD. For the findings of LVOTO and VSD, the studies were limited by the small number of exposed cases, inconsistent findings among studies, and the potential for chance findings from multiple comparisons in case control studies. Animal Data In studies conducted in rats and rabbits, bupropion was administered orally during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 450 and 150 mg per kg per day, respectively (approximately 11 and 7 times the MRHD, respectively, on a mg per m 2 basis). No clear evidence of teratogenic activity was found in either species; however, in rabbits, slightly increased incidences of fetal malformations and skeletal variations were observed at the lowest dose tested (25 mg per kg per day, approximately equal to the MRHD on a mg per m 2 basis) and greater. Decreased fetal weights were observed at 50 mg per kg and greater. When rats were administered bupropion at oral doses of up to 300 mg per kg per day (approximately 7 times the MRHD on a mg per m 2 basis) prior to mating and throughout pregnancy and lactation, there were no apparent adverse effects on offspring development.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers Bupropion and its metabolites are present in human milk. In a lactation study of 10 women, levels of orally dosed bupropion and its active metabolites were measured in expressed milk. The average daily infant exposure (assuming 150 mL per kg daily consumption) to bupropion and its active metabolites was 2% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Exercise caution when bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) are administered to a nursing woman.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ].

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Of the approximately 6,000 subjects who participated in clinical trials with bupropion sustained-release tablets (depression and smoking cessation trials), 275 were aged ≥65 years and 47 were aged ≥75 years. In addition, several hundred subjects aged ≥65 years participated in clinical trials using the immediate-release formulation of bupropion (depression trials). No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects. Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. Bupropion is extensively metabolized in the liver to active metabolites, which are further metabolized and excreted by the kidneys. The risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, it may be necessary to consider this factor in dose selection; it may be useful to monitor renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE 10.1 Human Overdose Experience Overdoses of up to 30 grams or more of bupropion have been reported. Seizure was reported in approximately one-third of all cases. Other serious reactions reported with overdoses of bupropion alone included hallucinations, loss of consciousness, sinus tachycardia, and ECG changes such as conduction disturbances (including QRS prolongation) or arrhythmias. Fever, muscle rigidity, rhabdomyolysis, hypotension, stupor, coma, and respiratory failure have been reported mainly when bupropion was part of multiple drug overdoses. Although most patients recovered without sequelae, deaths associated with overdoses of bupropion alone have been reported in patients ingesting large doses of the drug. Multiple uncontrolled seizures, bradycardia, cardiac failure, and cardiac arrest prior to death were reported in these patients. 10.2 Overdosage Management Consult a Certified Poison Control Center for up-to-date guidance and advice. Telephone numbers for certified poison control centers are listed in the Physician’s Desk Reference (PDR). Call 1-800-222-1222 or refer to www.poison.org. There are no known antidotes for bupropion. In case of an overdose, provide supportive care, including close medical supervision and monitoring. Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdose. Ensure an adequate airway, oxygenation, and ventilation. Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs. Induction of emesis is not recommended.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in two 4-week, placebo-controlled trials in adult inpatients with MDD (Trials 1 and 2 in Table 6 ) and in one 6-week, placebo-controlled trial in adult outpatients with MDD (Trial 3 in Table 6 ). In the first trial, the dose range of bupropion was 300 mg to 600 mg per day administered in divided doses; 78% of subjects were treated with doses of 300 mg to 450 mg per day. This trial demonstrated the effectiveness of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) total score, the HDRS depressed mood item (Item 1), and the Clinical Global Impressions severity score (CGI-S). The second trial included 2 doses of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion (300 mg per day and 450 mg per day) and placebo. This trial demonstrated the effectiveness of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion, but only at the 450-mg-per-day dose. The efficacy results were significant for the HDRS total score and the CGI-S score, but not for HDRS Item 1. In the third trial, outpatients were treated with 300 mg per day of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion. This trial demonstrated the efficacy of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion as measured by the HDRS total score, the HDRS Item 1, the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the CGI-S score, and the CGI-Improvement Scale (CGI-I) score. Table 6. Efficacy of Immediate-Release Bupropion for the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder Trial Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure: HDRS Mean Baseline Score (SD) LS Mean Score at Endpoint Visit (SE) Placebo-subtracted Difference Difference (drug minus placebo) in least-squares estimates with respect to the primary efficacy parameter. For Trial 1, it refers to the mean score at the endpoint visit; for Trials 2 and 3, it refers to the mean change from baseline to the endpoint visit. (95% CI) Trial 1 Immediate-Release Bupropion 300-600 mg/day Doses that are demonstrated to be statistically significantly superior to placebo. (n = 48) 28.5 (5.1) 14.9 (1.3) -4.7 (-8.8, -0.6) Placebo (n = 27) 29.3 (7.0) 19.6 (1.6) -- Mean Baseline Score (SD) LS Mean Change from Baseline (SE) Placebo-subtracted Difference (95% CI) Trial 2 Immediate-Release Bupropion 300 mg/day (n = 36) 32.4 (5.9) -15.5 (1.7) -4.1 Immediate-Release Bupropion 450 mg/day (n = 34) 34.8 (4.6) -17.4 (1.7) -5.9 (-10.5, -1.4) Placebo (n = 39) 32.9 (5.4) -11.5 (1.6) -- Trial 3 Immediate-Release Bupropion 300 mg/day (n = 110) 26.5 (4.3) -12.0 (NA) -3.9 (-5.7, -1.0) Placebo (n = 106) 27.0 (3.5) -8.7 (NA) -- n: sample size; SD: standard deviation; SE: standard error; LS Mean: least-squares mean; CI: unadjusted confidence interval included for doses that were demonstrated to be effective; NA: not available. Although there are not as yet independent trials demonstrating the antidepressant effectiveness of the sustained-release formulation of bupropion, trials have demonstrated the bioequivalence of the immediate-release and sustained-release forms of bupropion under steady-state conditions, i.e., bupropion sustained-release 150 mg twice daily was shown to be bioequivalent to 100 mg 3 times daily of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion, with regard to both rate and extent of absorption, for parent drug and metabolites. In a longer-term trial, outpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder, recurrent type, who had responded during an 8-week open trial on bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) (150 mg twice daily) were randomized to continuation of their same dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) or placebo for up to 44 weeks of observation for relapse. Response during the open phase was defined as CGI Improvement score of 1 (very much improved) or 2 (much improved) for each of the final 3 weeks. Relapse during the double-blind phase was defined as the investigator’s judgment that drug treatment was needed for worsening depressive symptoms. Patients receiving continued treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) experienced significantly lower relapse rates over the subsequent 44 weeks compared with those receiving placebo.

SPL TEXT:
Bupropion Hydrochloride Bupropion Hydrochloride CARNAUBA WAX FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FD&C RED NO. 40 HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED POLYSORBATE 80 TITANIUM DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED BUPROPION HYDROCHLORIDE BUPROPION E;over;415