DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Meclizine hydrochloride, a histamine (H1) receptor antagonist, is a white or slightly yellowish, crystalline powder. It has the following structural formula: Chemically, meclizine hydrochloride is 1-( p -chloro-α-phenylbenzyl)-4-( m -methylbenzyl) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate. Inactive ingredients for the tablets are: colloidal silicon dioxide, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, sodium starch glycolate and talc. The 12.5 mg tablets also contain FD&C Blue #1 Aluminum Lake. The 25 mg tablets also contain D&C Yellow #10 Aluminum Lake. Each meclizine hydrochloride 12.5 mg tablet contains 12.5 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 10.53 mg of meclizine free base. Each meclizine hydrochloride 25 mg tablet contains 25 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 21.07 mg of meclizine free base. Each meclizine hydrochloride 50 mg tablet contains 50 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 42.14 mg of meclizine free base. 1

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which meclizine exerts its therapeutic effect is unknown but is presumed to involve antagonism of the histamine H1 receptor. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics There are no relevant pharmacodynamic data regarding meclizine. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature. Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median T max value of 3 hours post-dose (range: 1.5 to 6 hours) for the tablet dosage form. Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans are unknown. Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half-life of about 5 to 6 hours in humans. Metabolism In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme, CYP2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which meclizine exerts its therapeutic effect is unknown but is presumed to involve antagonism of the histamine H1 receptor.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults. Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults ( 1 ).

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients [see Adverse Reactions (6) and Description (11) ] . Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ).

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dosage: 25 mg to 100 mg daily, in divided doses ( 2.1 ). Tablets: Swallow whole ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily administered orally, in divided doses, depending upon clinical response. 2.2 Administration Instructions Tablets Meclizine hydrochloride tablets must be swallowed whole.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of meclizine hydrochloride were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports. Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Anaphylactic reaction, drowsiness, dry mouth, headache, fatigue, and vomiting. On rare occasions blurred vision has been reported. Common adverse reactions are anaphylactic reaction, drowsiness, dry mouth, headache, fatigue, and vomiting. On rare occasions blurred vision has been reported ( 6 ). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-835-5472 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of meclizine hydrochloride with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, may result in increased CNS depression ( 7.1 ). CYP2D6 inhibitors: As meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6, there is a potential for drug-drug interactions between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors ( 7.2 ). 7.1 CNS Depressants There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine hydrochloride is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants, including alcohol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Based on in-vitro evaluation, meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, monitor for adverse reactions and clinical effect accordingly.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Data from epidemiological studies have not generally indicated a drug-associated risk of major birth defects with meclizine during pregnancy. However, in a published study, an increased incidence of fetal malformations was observed following oral administration of meclizine to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis, at doses similar to those used clinically. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. Data Human Data Epidemiological studies reporting on pregnancies exposed to meclizine have not identified an association between the use of meclizine during pregnancy and an increased risk of major birth defects. Animal Data In a published study, oral administration of meclizine (25 mg/kg to 250 mg/kg) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in a high incidence of fetal malformations. These effects occurred at doses as low as 25 mg/kg, which is approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose (100 mg) on a body surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.

SPL TEXT:
Meclizine Hydrochloride Meclizine Hydrochloride LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO TALC D&C YELLOW NO. 10 MECLIZINE HYDROCHLORIDE MECLIZINE Light AN;442