DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP is a combination of valsartan, an orally active, specific angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) acting on the AT 1 receptor subtype, and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic. Valsartan, a nonpeptide molecule, is chemically described as N -[p-(o-1 H -Tetrazol-5-ylphenyl)benzyl- N -Valeryl-L-valine. Its molecular formula is C 24 H 29 N 5 O 3 , its molecular weight is 435.5, and its structural formula is Valsartan, USP is a white to practically white fine powder. It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water. Hydrochlorothiazide, USP is a white, or practically white, practically odorless, crystalline powder. It is slightly soluble in water; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution, in n -butylamine, and in dimethylformamide; sparingly soluble in methanol; and insoluble in ether, in chloroform, and in dilute mineral acids. Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2 H -1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulfonamide 1,1-dioxide. Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. Its molecular formula is C 7 H 8 ClN 3 O 4 S 2 , its molecular weight is 297.73, and its structural formula is Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are formulated for oral administration to contain valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 80 mg/12.5 mg, 160 mg/12.5 mg, 160 mg/25 mg, 320 mg/12.5 mg and 320 mg/25 mg. The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polydextrose, polyethylene glycol, povidone, pregelatinized starch (corn), sodium lauryl sulfate, titanium dioxide and triacetin. The 80 mg/12.5 mg, 160 mg/12.5 mg, 160 mg/25 mg and 320 mg/12.5 mg tablets also contain red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide. The 320 mg/25 mg tablet also contains FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake and FD&C Yellow No. 6 Aluminum Lake. Valsartan Structural Formula Hydrochlorothiazide Structural Formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE, kininase II). Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin-angiotensin system, with effects that include vasoconstriction, stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone, cardiac stimulation, and renal reabsorption of sodium. Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT 1 receptor in many tissues, such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland. Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis. There is also an AT 2 receptor found in many tissues, but AT 2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis. Valsartan has much greater affinity (about 20,000-fold) for the AT 1 receptor than for the AT 2 receptor. The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT 1 receptor about one 200 th that of valsartan itself. Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors, which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I, is widely used in the treatment of hypertension. ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin, a reaction also catalyzed by ACE. Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase II) it does not affect the response to bradykinin. Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known. Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation. Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion, but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure. Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. Indirectly, the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, with consequent increases in plasma renin activity, increases in aldosterone secretion, increases in urinary potassium loss and decreases in serum potassium. The renin-aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II, so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics. The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Valsartan Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions. An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80% at peak with approximately 30% inhibition persisting for 24 hours. No information on the effect of larger doses is available. Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2- to 3-fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients. Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan; very little effect on serum potassium was observed. Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide, diuresis begins within 2 hours, peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours. Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide Alcohol, Barbiturates or Narcotics Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants Possible increased responsiveness to muscle relaxants such as curare derivatives. Digitalis Glycosides Thiazide-induced hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may predispose the patient to digoxin toxicity. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Valsartan Valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing. Valsartan shows bi-exponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration, with an average elimination half-life of about 6 hours. Absolute bioavailability for the capsule formulation is about 25% (range 10% to 35%). Food decreases the exposure (as measured by AUC) to valsartan by about 40% and peak plasma concentration (C max ) by about 50%. AUC and C max values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range. Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration. Hydrochlorothiazide The estimated absolute bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide after oral administration is about 70%. Peak plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations (C max ) are reached within 2 to 5 hours after oral administration. There is no clinically significant effect of food on the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide binds to albumin (40% to 70%) and distributes into erythrocytes. Following oral administration, plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations decline bi-exponentially, with a mean distribution half-life of about 2 hours and an elimination half-life of about 10 hours. Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be administered with or without food. Distribution Valsartan The steady-state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small (17 L), indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively. Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins (95%), mainly serum albumin. Metabolism Valsartan The primary metabolite, accounting for about 9% of dose, is valeryl 4-hydroxy valsartan. In vitro metabolism studies involving recombinant CYP 450 enzymes indicated that the CYP 2C9 isoenzyme is responsible for the formation of valeryl-4-hydroxy valsartan. Valsartan does not inhibit CYP 450 isozymes at clinically relevant concentrations. CYP 450 mediated drug interaction between valsartan and coadministered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism. Hydrochlorothiazide Is not metabolized. Excretion Valsartan Valsartan, when administered as an oral solution, is primarily recovered in feces (about 83% of dose) and urine (about 13% of dose). The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug, with only about 20% of dose recovered as metabolites. Following intravenous administration, plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L/h and its renal clearance is 0.62 L/h (about 30% of total clearance). Hydrochlorothiazide About 70% of an orally administered dose of hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug. Special Populations Geriatric Exposure (measured by AUC) to valsartan is higher by 70% and the half-life is longer by 35% in the elderly than in the young. A limited amount of data suggest that the systemic clearance of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in both healthy and hypertensive elderly subjects compared to young healthy volunteers. Gender Pharmacokinetics of valsartan do not differ significantly between males and females. Race Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied. Renal Insufficiency There is no apparent correlation between renal function (measured by creatinine clearance) and exposure (measured by AUC) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment. Valsartan has not been studied in patients with severe impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min). Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis. In a study in individuals with impaired renal function, the mean elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was doubled in individuals with mild/moderate renal impairment (30 < CLcr < 90 mL/min) and tripled in severe renal impairment (≤ 30 mL/min), compared to individuals with normal renal function (CLcr > 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Hepatic Insufficiency On average, patients with mild to moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure (measured by AUC values) to valsartan of healthy volunteers (matched by age, sex and weight) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide Drugs that Alter Gastrointestinal Motility The bioavailability of thiazide-type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents (e.g., atropine, biperiden), apparently due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate. Conversely, pro-kinetic drugs may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide diuretics. Cholestyramine In a dedicated drug interaction study, administration of cholestyramine 2 hours before hydrochlorothiazide resulted in a 70% reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide. Further, administration of hydrochlorothiazide 2 hours before cholestyramine resulted in 35% reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide. Antineoplastic Agents (e.g., Cyclophosphamide, Methotrexate) Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may reduce renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE, kininase II). Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin-angiotensin system, with effects that include vasoconstriction, stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone, cardiac stimulation, and renal reabsorption of sodium. Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT 1 receptor in many tissues, such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland. Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis. There is also an AT 2 receptor found in many tissues, but AT 2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis. Valsartan has much greater affinity (about 20,000-fold) for the AT 1 receptor than for the AT 2 receptor. The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT 1 receptor about one 200 th that of valsartan itself. Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors, which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I, is widely used in the treatment of hypertension. ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin, a reaction also catalyzed by ACE. Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase II) it does not affect the response to bradykinin. Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known. Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation. Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion, but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure. Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. Indirectly, the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, with consequent increases in plasma renin activity, increases in aldosterone secretion, increases in urinary potassium loss and decreases in serum potassium. The renin-aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II, so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics. The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including hydrochlorothiazide and the ARB class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality have also been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Add-On Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Replacement Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. Initial Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. The choice of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks and heart failure), kidney failure and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 320 mg/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling. The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets rises to about 84% (systolic) or 80% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23% (systolic) or 36% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide is the combination tablet of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Figure 1. Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure  140 mm/Hg at Week 8 Figure 2. Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure  90 mm/Hg at Week 8 Figure 3. Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure  130 mm/Hg at Week 8 Figure 4. Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure  80 mm/Hg at Week 8

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component; Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected, discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. ( 5.1 ) Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus. ( 5.1 ) WARNING: FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. ( 5.1 ) Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus. ( 5.1 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320 mg/25 mg ( 2 ) May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ) ( 2 ) May be substituted for titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 mg/25 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. 2.2 Add-On Therapy A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan (or another ARB) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. A patient who experiences dose-limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions. The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 mg/25 mg. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.5 Use with Other Antihypertensive Drugs Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide were headache and dizziness. The only adverse experience that occurred in ≥ 2% of patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and at a higher incidence than placebo was nasopharyngitis (2.4% vs. 1.9%). ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Hypertension Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in more than 5,700 patients, including over 990 treated for over 6 months, and over 370 for over one year. Adverse experiences have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy. The overall incidence of adverse reactions with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide was comparable to placebo. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose related nor related to gender, age or race. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2.3% of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide patients and 3.1% of placebo patients. The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide were headache and dizziness. The only adverse reaction that occurred in controlled clinical trials in at least 2% of patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and at a higher incidence in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (n = 4,372) than placebo (n = 262) patients was nasopharyngitis (2.4% vs. 1.9%). Dose related orthostatic effects were seen in fewer than 1% of patients. In individual trials, a dose related increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Other adverse reactions that have been reported with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (> 0.2% of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide patients in controlled clinical trials) without regard to causality, are listed below: Cardiovascular: Palpitations and tachycardia Ear and Labyrinth: Tinnitus and vertigo Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, diarrhea, flatulence, dry mouth, nausea, abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, and vomiting General and Administration Site Conditions: Asthenia, chest pain, fatigue, peripheral edema and pyrexia Infections and Infestations: Bronchitis, bronchitis acute, influenza, gastroenteritis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection and urinary tract infection Investigations: Blood urea increased Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, myalgia, and pain in extremity Nervous System: Dizziness postural, paresthesia, and somnolence Psychiatric: Anxiety and insomnia Renal and Urinary: Pollakiuria Reproductive System: Erectile dysfunction Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal: Dyspnea, cough, nasal congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain and sinus congestion Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: Hyperhidrosis and rash Vascular: Hypotension Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included abnormal vision, anaphylaxis, bronchospasm, constipation, depression, dehydration, decreased libido, dysuria, epistaxis, flushing, gout, increased appetite, muscle weakness, pharyngitis, pruritus, sunburn, syncope and viral infection. Initial Therapy - Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse reactions reported through 6 weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with valsartan as initial therapy. Comparing the groups treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (force-titrated to 320 mg/25 mg) and valsartan (force-titrated to 320 mg), dizziness was observed in 6% and 2% of patients, respectively. Hypotension was observed in 1% of those patients receiving valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and 0% of patients receiving valsartan. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. Laboratory changes with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy in patients with severe hypertension were similar to those reported with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with less severe hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.2) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Valsartan In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo, the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE inhibitor group (7.9%) than in the groups who received valsartan (2.6%) or placebo (1.5%). In a 129-patient trial limited to patients who had had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors, the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan, hydrochlorothiazide or lisinopril were 20%, 19%, 69% respectively (p < 0.001). Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included chest pain, syncope, anorexia, vomiting and angioedema. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse reactions not listed above that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body As A Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Clinical Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine/Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) Minor elevations in creatinine and BUN occurred in 2% and 15% respectively, of patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and 0.4% and 6% respectively, given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Greater than 20% decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit were observed in less than 0.1% of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide patients, compared with 0% in placebo-treated patients. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations (greater than 150%) of liver chemistries occurred in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide-treated patients. Neutropenia Neutropenia was observed in 0.1% of patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and 0.4% of patients treated with placebo. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in valsartan or valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: There are rare reports of angioedema. Some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide should not be re-administered to patients who have had angioedema. Digestive: Elevated liver enzymes and very rare reports of hepatitis; Renal: Impaired renal function; Clinical Laboratory Tests: Hyperkalemia; Dermatologic: Alopecia, bullous dermatitis; Vascular: Vasculitis; Nervous System: Syncope. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Hydrochlorothiazide The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience with hydrochlorothiazide: Acute renal failure, renal disorder, aplastic anemia, erythema multiforme, pyrexia, muscle spasm, asthenia, acute angle-closure glaucoma, bone marrow failure, worsening of diabetes control, hypokalemia, blood lipids increased, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypercalcemia, hypochloremic alkalosis, impotence and visual impairment. Pathological changes in the parathyroid gland of patients with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy. If hypercalcemia occurs, further diagnostic evaluation is necessary.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan-Hydrochlorothiazide: Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Valsartan: No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine, atenolol, cimetidine, digoxin, furosemide, glyburide, hydrochlorothiazide or indomethacin. The valsartan-atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component, but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone. Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time-course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin. CYP 450 Interactions: In vitro metabolism studies indicate that CYP 450 mediated drug interactions between valsartan and coadministered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Transporters: The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. Coadministration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampin, cyclosporine) or efflux transporter (ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Potassium : Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. If co-medication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDS and COX-2 selective inhibitors): When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine: May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cyclosporine: Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout-type complications. Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 12.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concurrent use. ( 7 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotesin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia. ( 7 )

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects. Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension, oliguria and hyperkalemia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides can cross the placenta, and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma. Hydrochlorothiazide, like other diuretics, can cause placental hypoperfusion. It accumulates in the amniotic fluid, with reported concentrations up to 19 times higher than in umbilical vein plasma. Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia. Since they do not prevent or alter the course of EPH (Edema, Proteinuria, Hypertension) gestosis (pre-eclampsia), these drugs should not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women. The use of hydrochlorothiazide for other indications (e.g., heart disease) in pregnancy should be avoided.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether valsartan is excreted in human milk. Valsartan was excreted into the milk of lactating rats; however, animal breast milk drug levels may not accurately reflect human breast milk levels. Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human breast milk. Because many drugs are excreted into human milk and because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in pediatric patients have not been established. Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide: If oliguria or hypotension occurs, direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion. Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and/or substituting for disordered renal function.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, 764 (17.5%) patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide were ≥ 65 years and 118 (2.7%) were ≥ 75 years. No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide was observed between these patients and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide: Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans. The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic (vagal) stimulation. Depressed level of consciousness, circulatory collapse and shock have been reported. If symptomatic hypotension should occur, supportive treatment should be instituted. Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by dialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established. The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients are those caused by electrolyte depletion (hypokalemia, hypochloremia, hyponatremia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. If digitalis has also been administered, hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias. In rats and marmosets, single oral doses of valsartan up to 1524 and 762 mg/kg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 476 and 238 mg/kg, respectively, were very well tolerated without any treatment-related effects. These no adverse effect doses in rats and marmosets, respectively, represent 46.5 and 23 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of valsartan and 188 and 113 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg/m 2 basis. (Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg/day valsartan in combination with 25 mg/day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 kg patient.) Valsartan: Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg/kg in rats and up to 1000 mg/kg in marmosets, except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose (60 and 31 times, respectively, the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). (Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg/day and a 60 kg patient.) Hydrochlorothiazide: The oral LD 50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g/kg in both mice and rats, which represents 2,027 and 4,054 times, respectively, the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis. (Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg/day and a 60 kg patient.)

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Hypertension Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide In controlled clinical trials including over 7,600 patients, 4,372 patients were exposed to valsartan (80 mg, 160 mg and 320 mg) and concomitant hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg and 25 mg). Two factorial trials compared various combinations of 80 mg/12.5 mg, 80 mg/25 mg, 160 mg/12.5 mg, 160 mg/25 mg, 320 mg/12.5 mg and 320 mg/25 mg with their respective components and placebo. The combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in additive placebo-adjusted decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough of 14 to 21/8 to 11 mmHg at 80 mg/12.5 mg to 320 mg/25 mg, compared to 7 to 10/4 to 5 mmHg for valsartan 80 mg to 320 mg and 5 to 11/2 to 5 mmHg for hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg to 25 mg, alone. Three other controlled trials investigated the addition of hydrochlorothiazide to patients who did not respond adequately to valsartan 80 mg to valsartan 320 mg, resulted in the additional lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 4 to 12/2 to 5 mmHg. The maximal antihypertensive effect was attained 4 weeks after the initiation of therapy, the first time point at which blood pressure was measured in these trials. In long-term follow-up studies (without placebo control) the effect of the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide appeared to be maintained for up to 2 years. The antihypertensive effect is independent of age or gender. The overall response to the combination was similar for Black and non-Black patients. There was essentially no change in heart rate in patients treated with the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled trials. There are no trials of the valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide combination tablet demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension, but the hydrochlorothiazide component and several ARBs, which are the same pharmacological class as the valsartan component, have demonstrated such benefits. Valsartan The antihypertensive effects of valsartan were demonstrated principally in seven placebo-controlled, 4- to 12-week trials (one in patients over 65) of dosages from 10 to 320 mg/day in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 to 115. The studies allowed comparison of once daily and twice daily regimens of 160 mg/day; comparison of peak and trough effects; comparison (in pooled data) of response by gender, age and race; and evaluation of incremental effects of hydrochlorothiazide. Administration of valsartan to patients with essential hypertension results in a significant reduction of sitting, supine, and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure, usually with little or no orthostatic change. In most patients, after administration of a single oral dose, onset of antihypertensive activity occurs at approximately 2 hours, and maximum reduction of blood pressure is achieved within 6 hours. The antihypertensive effect persists for 24 hours after dosing, but there is a decrease from peak effect at lower doses (40 mg) presumably reflecting loss of inhibition of angiotensin II. At higher doses, however (160 mg), there is little difference in peak and trough effect. During repeated dosing, the reduction in blood pressure with any dose is substantially present within 2 weeks, and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies (without placebo control) the effect of valsartan appeared to be maintained for up to 2 years. The antihypertensive effect is independent of age, gender or race. The latter finding regarding race is based on pooled data and should be viewed with caution, because antihypertensive drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system (that is, ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II blockers) have generally been found to be less effective in low-renin hypertensives (frequently Blacks) than in high-renin hypertensives (frequently Whites). In pooled, randomized, controlled trials of valsartan that included a total of 140 Blacks and 830 Whites, valsartan and an ACE-inhibitor control were generally at least as effective in Blacks as Whites. The explanation for this difference from previous findings is unclear. Abrupt withdrawal of valsartan has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure. The seven studies of valsartan monotherapy included over 2,000 patients randomized to various doses of valsartan and about 800 patients randomized to placebo. Doses below 80 mg were not consistently distinguished from those of placebo at trough, but doses of 80 mg, 160 mg and 320 mg produced dose related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with the difference from placebo of approximately 6 to 9/3 to 5 mmHg at 80 mg to 160 mg and 9/6 mmHg at 320 mg. Patients with an inadequate response to 80 mg once daily were titrated to either 160 mg once daily or 80 mg twice daily, which resulted in a comparable response in both groups. In another 4-week study, 1,876 patients randomized to valsartan 320 mg once daily had an incremental blood pressure reduction 3/1 mmHg lower than did 1,900 patients randomized to valsartan 160 mg once daily. In controlled trials, the antihypertensive effect of once daily valsartan 80 mg was similar to that of once daily enalapril 20 mg or once daily lisinopril 10 mg. There was essentially no change in heart rate in valsartan-treated patients in controlled trials. 14.2 Initial Therapy - Hypertension The safety and efficacy of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for patients with severe hypertension (defined as a sitting diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg off all antihypertensive therapy) was studied in a 6-week multicenter, randomized, double-blind study. Patients were randomized to either valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 160 mg/12.5 mg once daily or to valsartan (160 mg once daily) and followed for blood pressure response. Patients were force-titrated at 2 week intervals. Patients on combination therapy were subsequently titrated to 160 mg/25 mg followed by 320 mg/25 mg valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Patients on monotherapy were subsequently titrated to 320 mg valsartan followed by a titration to 320 mg valsartan to maintain the blind. The study randomized 608 patients, including 261 (43%) females, 147 (24%) Blacks and 75 (12%) ≥ 65 years of age. The mean blood pressure at baseline for the total population was 168/112 mmHg. The mean age was 52 years. After 4 weeks of therapy, reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 9/5 mmHg greater in the group treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide compared to valsartan. Similar trends were seen when the patients were grouped according to gender, race or age.

SPL TEXT:
Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide SILICON DIOXIDE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED FERRIC OXIDE RED LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN VALSARTAN VALSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE M;V21 Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN VALSARTAN VALSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE SILICON DIOXIDE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED FERRIC OXIDE RED LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED M;V22 Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide SILICON DIOXIDE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED FERRIC OXIDE RED LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE TRIACETIN TITANIUM DIOXIDE VALSARTAN VALSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE M;V23