DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets contain dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride, a CNS stimulant. Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride. Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets are available as 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration. Chemically, dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is methyl α-phenyl-2-piperidineacetate hydrochloride, (R,R')-(+)-. Its molecular formula is C 14 H 19 NO 2 ∙HCl. Its structural formula is: Note: *=asymmetric carbon centers Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a white to off-white powder. Its solutions are acid to litmus. It is freely soluble in water and in methanol, soluble in alcohol, and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone. Its molecular weight is 269.77 g/mol. Inactive Ingredients: lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, sodium starch glycolate, pregelatinized starch, magnesium stearate, and FD&C Blue No.1 aluminum lake (2.5 mg tablets), D&C Yellow Lake #10 (5 mg tablets); the 10 mg tablet contains no dye. Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a CNS stimulant. The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Dexmethylphenidate is the more pharmacologically active d -enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increases the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space. Cardiac Electrophysiology A formal QT study has not been conducted in patients taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets; however, a large QT effect is not expected. At the recommended maximum total daily dosage of 40 mg, dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules do not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is readily absorbed following oral administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. In patients with ADHD, plasma dexmethylphenidate concentrations increase rapidly, reaching a maximum in the fasted state at about 1 to 1.5 hours postdose. No differences in the pharmacokinetics of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets were noted following single and repeated twice daily dosing, thus indicating no significant drug accumulation in children with ADHD. After single dose administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets to pediatric patients, dexmethylphenidate exposure (C max and AUC 0-inf ) showed dose-proportional increase in the range of 2.5 mg to 10 mg. Comparable plasma dexmethylphenidate levels were achieved following single dl-threo- methylphenidate HCl doses given as capsules in twice the total mg amount (equimolar with respect to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets). Approximately 90% of the dose is absorbed after oral administration of radiolabeled racemic methylphenidate. However, due to first pass metabolism, the mean absolute bioavailability of dexmethylphenidate, when administered in various formulations, was 22% to 25%. Effect of Food High fat breakfast did not significantly affect C max or AUC 0-inf of dexmethylphenidate when two 10 mg dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets were administered, but delayed T max from 1.5 hours post dose to 2.9 hours post dose. Distribution The plasma protein binding of dexmethylphenidate is not known; racemic methylphenidate is bound to plasma proteins by 12% to 15%, independent of concentration. Dexmethylphenidate shows a volume of distribution of 2.65 ± 1.11 L/kg. Elimination Plasma dexmethylphenidate concentrations declined exponentially following oral administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Intravenous dexmethylphenidate was eliminated with a mean clearance of 0.40 ± 0.12 L/hr/kg. The mean terminal elimination half-life of dexmethylphenidate was approximately 2.2 hours. Metabolism In humans, dexmethylphenidate is metabolized primarily via de-esterification to d-α-phenyl-piperidine acetic acid (also known as d -ritalinic acid). This metabolite has little or no pharmacological activity. There is little or no in vivo interconversion to the l-threo -enantiomer. Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled racemic methylphenidate in humans, about 90% of the radioactivity was recovered in urine. The main urinary metabolite of racemic dl- methylphenidate was dl- ritalinic acid, accountable for approximately 80% of the dose. Urinary excretion of parent compound accounted for 0.5% of an intravenous dose. Studies in Special Populations Male and Female Patients Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar for boys and girls (mean age 10 years). In a single dose study conducted in adults, the mean dexmethylphenidate AUC 0-inf values (adjusted for body weight) following single two 10 mg doses of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets were 25% to 35% higher in adult female volunteers (n = 6) compared to male volunteers (n = 9). Both t max and t 1/2 were comparable for males and females. Racial or Ethnic Groups There is insufficient experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics. Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetics of dexmethylphenidate after dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets administration have not been studied in children less than 6 years of age. When single doses of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets were given to children between the ages of 6 to 12 years and healthy adult volunteers, C max of dexmethylphenidate was similar, however, pediatric patients showed somewhat lower AUCs compared to the adults. Patients with Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in patients with renal impairment. Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance, renal impairment is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Patients with Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in patients with hepatic impairment. Drug Interaction Studies Methylphenidate is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes to a clinically relevant extent. Inducers or inhibitors of CYPs are not expected to have any relevant impact on methylphenidate pharmacokinetics. Conversely, the d- and l-enantiomers of methylphenidate did not relevantly inhibit CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A. Clinically, methylphenidate coadministration did not increase plasma concentrations of the CYP2D6 substrate desipramine.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a CNS stimulant. The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD ) [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) ( 1 ).

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets ( 4 ). Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ).

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, other methylphenidate-containing products, and amphetamines, have a high potential for abuse and dependence. Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2 , 9.3) ]. WARNING: ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. CNS stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, other methylphenidate-containing products, and amphetamines, have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5.1 , 9.2 , 9.3 ). Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5.1 , 9.2 ).

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer orally twice daily, 4 hours apart with or without food ( 2 ). For patients new to methylphenidate: Recommend starting dose of 5 mg once daily (2.5 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). For patients currently taking methylphenidate: Initiate dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets therapy with half (1/2) the current total daily dose of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). Titrate weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg/day (10 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Pre-treatment Screening Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy. Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically reevaluate the need for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets use [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2 , 9.3) ]. 2.2 Pediatric Patients with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients who are not currently taking racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate, is 5 mg daily (2.5 mg twice daily) with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients currently using methylphenidate is half (1/2) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. Titration Schedule The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg daily (10 mg twice daily). The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient. Maintenance/Extended Treatment Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate the long-term use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets and adjust dosage as needed. 2.3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are administered orally twice daily, at least 4 hours apart. 2.4 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Abuse and Dependence [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2 , 9.3) ] Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other ingredients of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Contraindications (4) ] Hypertensive crisis with Concomitant Use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Serious Cardiovascular Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Psychiatric Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Peripheral Vasculopathy, Including Raynaud's phenomenon [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Long-term Suppression of Growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] The most common adverse reactions (greater than or equal to 5% and twice the rate of placebo) in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years were abdominal pain, fever, nausea, and anorexia ( 6.1 ). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Rhodes Pharmaceuticals L.P. at 1-888-827-0616 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Clinical Trials Experience with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets in Pediatric Patients with ADHD The safety data in this section is based on data related to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets exposure during the premarketing development program in a total of 696 participants in clinical trials (684 patients, 12 healthy adult subjects). These participants received dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets 5, 10, or 20 mg/day. The 684 ADHD patients (ages 6 to 17 years) were evaluated in 2 controlled clinical studies, 2 clinical pharmacology studies, and 2 open-label long-term safety studies. Most Common Adverse Reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 5% and at least twice placebo): abdominal pain, fever, anorexia, and nausea. Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation : Overall, 50 of 684 (7.3%) pediatric patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets experienced an adverse reaction that resulted in discontinuation. The most common reasons for discontinuation were twitching (described as motor or vocal tics), anorexia, insomnia, and tachycardia (approximately 1% each). Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions for two, placebo-controlled, parallel group studies in pediatric patients with ADHD taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets doses of 5, 10, and 20 mg/day. The table includes only those reactions that occurred in patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for which the incidence was at least 5% and twice the incidence among placebo-treated patients. Table 1: Common Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 years of age) with ADHD System Organ Class Adverse Reactions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets (N=79) Placebo (N=82) Abbreviation:ADHD, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 15% 6% Fever 5% 1% Digestive System Anorexia 6% 1% Nausea 9% 1% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of dexmethylphenidate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Adverse Reactions Reported with all Ritalin and Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Formulations The following adverse reactions associated with the use of all Ritalin and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets formulations were identified in clinical trials, spontaneous reports, and literature. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Infections and Infestations: nasopharyngitis Blood and the Lymphatic System Disorders: leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia Immune System Disorders: hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema and anaphylaxis Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: decreased appetite, reduced weight gain, and suppression of growth during prolonged use in pediatric patients Psychiatric Disorders: insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, agitation, psychosis (sometimes with visual and tactile hallucinations), depressed mood Nervous System Disorders: headache, dizziness, tremor, dyskinesia, including choreoatheetoid movements, drowsiness, convulsions, cerebrovascular disorders (including vasculitis, cerebral hemorrhages, and cerebrovascular accidents), serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Eye Disorders: blurred vision, difficulties in visual accommodation Cardiac Disorders: tachycardia, palpitations, increased blood pressure, arrhythmias, angina pectoris Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: cough Gastrointestinal Disorders: dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dyspepsia Hepatobiliary Disorders: abnormal liver function, ranging from transaminase elevation to severe hepatic injury Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : hyperhidrosis, pruritus, urticaria, exfoliative dermatitis, scalp hair loss, erythema multiforme rash, thrombocytopenic purpura Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: arthralgia, muscle cramps, rhabdomyolysis Investigations: weight loss (adult ADHD patients) Additional Adverse Reactions Reported with Other Methylphenidate-Containing Products The list below shows adverse reactions not listed with Ritalin and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets formulations that have been reported with other methylphenidate products based on clinical trials data and postmarketing spontaneous reports. Blood and Lymphatic Disorders: pancytopenia Immune System Disorders: hypersensitivity reactions such as auricular swelling Psychiatric Disorders: affect lability, mania, disorientation, libido changes Nervous System Disorders : migraine Eye Disorders : diplopia, mydriasis Cardiac Disorders : sudden cardiac death, myocardial infarction, bradycardia, extrasystole, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular extrasystole Vascular Disorders: peripheral coldness, Raynaud's phenomenon Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, constipation Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: angioneurotic edema, erythema, fixed drug eruption Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: myalgia, muscle twitching Renal and Urinary Disorders: hematuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: gynecomastia General Disorders: fatigue Urogenital Disorders: priapism

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs: Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed ( 7.1 ). Halogenated Anesthetics: Avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Table 2: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4) ] . Intervention Concomitant use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Intervention Adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Examples Potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), beta blockers, centrally acting alpha-2 receptor agonists Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Monitor blood pressure and avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Examples halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visit https://womensmentalhealth.org/adhd-medications/. Risk Summary Dexmethylphenidate is the d-threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate. Published studies and postmarketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants use during pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations ) . Embryo-fetal development studies in rats showed delayed fetal skeletal ossification at doses up to 5 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg/day given to adults based on plasma levels. A decrease in pup weight in males was observed in a pre- and post-natal development study with oral administration of methylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses 5 times the MRHD of 20 mg/day given to adults based on plasma levels. Plasma levels in adults were comparatively similar to plasma levels in adolescents (see Data ) . The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions CNS stimulants, such as dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion. No fetal and/or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy; however, premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine-dependent mothers. Data Animal Data In embryo-fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits, dexmethylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 20 and 100 mg/kg/day, respectively, during the period of organogenesis. No evidence of malformations was found in either the rat or rabbit study; however, delayed fetal skeletal ossification was observed at the highest dose level in rats. When dexmethylphenidate was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 20 mg/kg/day, post-weaning body weight gain was decreased in male offspring at the highest dose, but no other effects on postnatal development were observed. At the highest doses tested, plasma levels [area under the curves (AUCs)] of dexmethylphenidate in pregnant rats and rabbits were approximately 5 and 1 times, respectively, those in adults dosed with the MRHD of 20 mg/day. Racemic methylphenidate has been shown to cause malformations (increased incidence of fetal spina bifida) in rabbits when given in doses of 200 mg/kg/day throughout organogenesis.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets have been established in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years in two adequate and well-controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. The safety and effectiveness of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in pediatric patients less than 6 years have not been established. The long-term efficacy of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in pediatric patients has not been established. Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with racemic methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood. A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only. The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 6 times the MRHD of 60 mg/day given to children on a mg/m 2 basis. In a study conducted in young rats, racemic methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg/kg/day for 9 weeks, starting early in the postnatal period (postnatal Day 7) and continuing through sexual maturity (postnatal week 10). When these animals were tested as adults (postnatal Weeks 13 to 14), decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg/kg/day (approximately 4 times the MRHD of 60 mg of racemic methylphenidate given to children on a mg/m 2 basis) or greater, and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was seen in females exposed to the highest dose (8 times the MRHD given to children on a mg/m 2 basis). The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.5 times the MRHD given to children on a mg/m 2 basis). The clinical significance of the long-term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets have not been studied in the geriatric population.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Human Experience Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage, resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects, may include the following: vomiting, agitation, tremors, hyperreflexia, muscle twitching, convulsions (may be followed by coma), euphoria, confusion, hallucinations, delirium, sweating, flushing, headache, hyperpyrexia, tachycardia, palpitations, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension, mydriasis, dryness of mucous membranes, and rhabdomyolysis. Overdose Management Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) for latest recommendations.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for the treatment of ADHD was established in two double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trials in untreated or previously treated patients (ages 6 to 17 years old) who met The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) criteria for ADHD inattentive, hyperactive-impulsive, or combined inattentive/hyperactive-impulsive subtypes. The sample was predominantly younger (ages 6 to 12 years); thus, the findings are most pertinent to this age group. In Study 1, patients were randomized to receive either dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets (5, 10, or 20 mg/day total dose), racemic methylphenidate HCl (10, 20, or 40 mg/day total dose), or placebo in a multicenter, 4-week, parallel group study in 132 pediatric patients. Patients received study medication twice daily separated by a 3.5 to 5.5 hours interval. Treatment was initiated with the lowest dose, and doses could be doubled at weekly intervals, depending on clinical response and tolerability, up to the maximum dose. The primary outcome was change from baseline to week 4 of the average score (an average of 2 ratings during the week) of the teacher's version of the Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham (SNAP)-ADHD Rating Scale. This 18 item scale measures ADHD symptoms of inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity, rated on a scale of 0 (Not at All) to 3 (Very Much). Patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets showed a statistically significant improvement in symptom scores from baseline over patients who received placebo (Table 3). Table 3: Summary of Efficacy Results from ADHD Acute-Phase Study in Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 years) (Study 1) Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure: Teacher SNAP-ADHD Total Score Average of two ratings. Mean Baseline Score (SD) Mean Change from Baseline Week 4 Score (SD) Abbreviations: ADHD, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; SD: standard deviation;SNAP; Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham; n, number of patients available at the assessment time point. Study 1 Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets 5 to 20 mg/day Statistically significantly different from placebo. (n=44) 1.4 (0.7) (n=42) -0.7 (0.7) (n=42) Placebo (n=42) 1.6 (0.7) (n=41) -0.2 (0.7) (n=39) Study 2 was a multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 2-week treatment withdrawal study in 75 children (ages 6 to 12 years) who were responders during a 6-week, open-label initial treatment period. Children took study medication twice a day separated by a 3.5 to 5.5 hour interval. The primary outcome was proportion of treatment failures at the end of the 2-week withdrawal phase, where treatment failure was defined as a rating of 6 (much worse) or 7 (very much worse) on the Investigator Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-I). Patients continued on dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets showed a statistically significant lower rate of failure over patients who received placebo (Table 4). Table 4: Summary of Efficacy Results from ADHD Randomized Withdrawal Study in Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 years) (Study 2) Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure: Proportion of Treatment Failure One patient did not have the value at Visit 10 and hence not included in this analysis. Number of Treatment Failures/Number of Randomized Patients Percentage Abbreviation: ADHD: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Study 2 Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets 5 to 20 mg/day Statistically significantly different from placebo. 6/35 17.1% Placebo 25/40 62.5%

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light and moisture. Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP, using a child-resistant closure. Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants. Dispose of remaining, unused, or expired dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets by a medicine take-back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration. If no take-back program or authorized collector is available, mix dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets with an undesirable, nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets. Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in the household trash.

SPL TEXT:
DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO STARCH, CORN MAGNESIUM STEARATE FD&C BLUE NO. 1 ALUMINUM OXIDE biconvex RP;11 DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO STARCH, CORN MAGNESIUM STEARATE D&C YELLOW NO. 10 ALUMINUM OXIDE biconvex RP;14 DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO STARCH, CORN MAGNESIUM STEARATE biconvex RP;17