DRUG NAME: TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE
GENERIC NAME: TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE
MANUFACTURER: Proficient Rx LP
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Tramadol hydrochloride is an opioid agonist in an extended-release tablet formulation for oral use. The chemical name is (±) cis -2-[(dimethylamino) methyl]-1-(3-methoxyphenyl) cyclohexanol hydrochloride. Its structural formula is: The molecular weight of tramadol hydrochloride is 299.84. It is a white, crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and methanol, very slightly soluble in acetone and has a pKa of 9.41. The n-octanol/water log partition coefficient (logP) is 1.35 at pH 7. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets contain 100 mg, 200 mg or 300 mg of tramadol hydrochloride, USP in an extended-release formulation. The tablets are white in color and contain the inactive ingredients pregelatinized maize starch, hypromellose, mannitol, magnesium stearate, cellulose acetate and polyethylene glycol. Imprinting ink contains, shellac glaze, iron oxide black, N-butyl alcohol, ammonium hydroxide and propylene glycol. tramadol-structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets contain tramadol, an opioid agonist and an inhibitor of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Although the mode of action of tramadol is not completely understood, the analgesic effect of tramadol is believed to be due to both binding to μ-opioid receptors and weak inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Opioid activity of tramadol is due to both low affinity binding of the parent compound and higher affinity binding of the O-desmethyl metabolite M1 to μ-opioid receptors. In animal models, M1 is up to 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in μ-opioid binding. Tramadol-induced analgesia is only partially antagonized by the opioid antagonist naloxone in several animal tests. The relative contribution of both tramadol and M1 to human analgesia is dependent upon the plasma concentrations of each compound. Tramadol has been shown to inhibit reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in vitro , as have some other opioid analgesics. These mechanisms may contribute independently to the overall analgesic profile of tramadol. Apart from analgesia, tramadol administration may produce a constellation of symptoms (including dizziness, somnolence, nausea, constipation, sweating and pruritus) similar to that of other opioids. In contrast to morphine, tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release. At therapeutic doses, tramadol has no effect on heart rate, left-ventricular function, or cardiac index. Orthostatic hypotension has been observed. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on the Central Nervous System Tramadol produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers. The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation. Tramadol causes miosis, even in total darkness. Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic (e.g., pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings). Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations. Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Tramadol causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased to the point of spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of sphincter of Oddi, and transient elevations in serum amylase. Effects on the Cardiovascular System Tramadol produces peripheral vasodilation, which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Manifestations of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes, sweating, and/or orthostatic hypotension. The effect of oral tramadol on the QTcF interval was evaluated in a double-blind, randomized, four-way crossover, placebo-and positive-(moxifloxacin) controlled study in 68 adult male and female healthy subjects. At a 600 mg/day dose (1.5-fold the maximum immediate-release daily dose), the study demonstrated no significant effect on the QTcF interval. Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in humans [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . They also stimulate prolactin, growth hormone (GH) secretion, and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon. Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido, impotence, erectile dysfunction, amenorrhea, or infertility. The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Overall, the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive. Concentration–Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients, especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent opioid agonists. The minimum effective analgesic concentration of tramadol for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain, the development of a new pain syndrome, and/or the development of analgesic tolerance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Concentration–Adverse Reaction Relationships There is a relationship between increasing tramadol plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose-related opioid adverse reactions such as nausea, vomiting, CNS effects, and respiratory depression. In opioid-tolerant patients, the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid-related adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.3 ) ]. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to both parent drug and the M1 metabolite. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is administered as a racemate and both the [-] and [+] forms of both tramadol and M1 are detected in the circulation. The pharmacokinetics of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are approximately dose-proportional over a 100 to 400 mg dose range in healthy subjects. The observed tramadol AUC values for the 400 mg dose were 26% higher than predicted based on the AUC values for the 200 mg dose. The clinical significance of this finding has not been studied and is not known. Absorption In healthy subjects, the bioavailability of a tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet 200 mg administered once daily relative to a 50 mg immediate-release (IR) tablet administered every six hours was approximately 85 to 90%. Consistent with the extended-release nature of the formulation, there is a lag time in drug absorption following tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets administration. The mean peak plasma concentrations of tramadol and M1 after administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to healthy volunteers are attained at about 12 h and 15 h, respectively, after dosing (see Table 3 and Figure 1). Following administration of the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, steady-state plasma concentrations of both tramadol and M1 are achieved within four days with once daily dosing. The mean (%CV) pharmacokinetic parameter values for tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet 200 mg administered once daily and tramadol HCl IR 50 mg administered every six hours are provided in Table 3. Table 3. Mean (%CV) Steady-State Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values (n=32) Tramadol M1 Metabolite Pharmacokinetic Parameter Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release 200 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release 200 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg Tablet Once-Daily Every 6 Hours Once-Daily Every 6 Hours AUC 0-24 (ng∙h/mL) 5975 (34) 6613 (27) 1890 (25) 2095 (26) C max (ng/mL) 335 (35) 383 (21) 95 (24) 104 (24) C min (ng/mL) 187 (37) 228 (32) 69 (30) 82 (27) T max (h) 12 (27) 1.5 (42) 15 (27) 1.9 (57) % Fluctuation 61 (57) 59 (35) 34 (72) 26 (47) AUC 0-24 : Area Under the Curve in a 24-hour dosing interval; C max : Peak Concentration in a 24- hour dosing interval; C min : Trough Concentration in a 24-hour dosing interval; T max : Time to Peak Concentration Figure 1: Mean Steady-State Tramadol (a) and M1 (b) Plasma Concentrations on Day 8 Post Dose after Administration of 200 mg Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Once-Daily and 50 mg Tramadol IR Tablets Every 6 Hours. Food Effects After a single dose administration of 200 mg tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet with a high fat meal, the C max and AUC 0-∞ of tramadol decreased 28% and 16%, respectively, compared to fasting conditions. Mean T max was increased by 3 hr (from 14 hr under fasting conditions to 17 hr under fed conditions). While tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, it is recommended that it be taken in a consistent manner [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Distribution The volume of distribution of tramadol was 2.6 and 2.9 L/kg in male and female subjects, respectively, following a 100 mg intravenous dose. The binding of tramadol to human plasma proteins is approximately 20% and binding also appears to be independent of concentration up to 10 mcg/mL. Saturation of plasma protein binding occurs only at concentrations outside the clinically relevant range. Elimination Tramadol is eliminated primarily through metabolism by the liver and the metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys. The mean terminal plasma elimination half-lives of racemic tramadol and racemic M1 after administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are approximately 7.9 and 8.8 hours, respectively. Metabolism Tramadol is extensively metabolized after oral administration. The metabolic pathways appear to be N – demethylation (mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6), O – demethylation (mediated by CYP2D6) and glucuronidation or sulfation in the liver. The CYP2D6 metabolite, O-desmethyl tramadol, (denoted M1) is observed to be 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in μ-opioid binding in animal models. Excretion Approximately 30% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug, whereas 60% of the dose is excreted as metabolites. The remainder is excreted either as unidentified or as unextractable metabolites. Special Populations Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetics of tramadol was studied in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment after receiving multiple doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets 100 mg. The exposure of (+)- and (-)-tramadol was similar in mild and moderate hepatic impairment patients in comparison to patients with normal hepatic function. However, exposure of active metabolite (+)- and (-)-M1 decreased ~50% with increased severity of the hepatic impairment (from normal to mild and moderate). The pharmacokinetics of tramadol after the administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). After the administration of tramadol IR tablets to patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver, tramadol exposure was increased and the tramadol and M1 half-lives were longer than patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Renal Impairment Impaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite, M1. The pharmacokinetics of tramadol were studied in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment after receiving multiple doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets 100 mg. There is no consistent trend observed for tramadol exposure related to renal function in patients with mild (CL cr : 50 to 80 mL/min) or moderate (CL cr : 30 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment in comparison to patients with normal renal function. However, exposure of M1 increased 20 to 40% with increased severity of the renal impairment (from normal to mild and moderate). Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr < 30 mL/min). The total amount of tramadol and M1 removed during a 4-hour dialysis period is less than 7% of the administered dose [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Sex Based on pooled multiple-dose pharmacokinetics studies for tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in 166 healthy subjects (111 males and 55 females), the dose-normalized AUC values for tramadol were somewhat higher in females than in males. There was a considerable degree of overlap in values between male and female groups. Dosage adjustment based on sex is not recommended. Age: Geriatric Population The effect of age on pharmacokinetics of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets has not been studied. Healthy elderly subjects aged 65 to 75 years administered an immediate-release formulation of tramadol, have plasma concentrations and elimination half-lives comparable to those observed in healthy subjects younger than 65 years of age. In subjects over 75 years, mean maximum plasma concentrations are elevated (208 vs. 162 ng/mL) and the mean elimination half-life is prolonged (7 vs. 6 hours) compared to subjects 65 to 75 years of age. Adjustment of the daily dose is recommended for patients older than 75 years [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Tramadol to Affect Other Drugs In vitro studies indicate that tramadol is unlikely to inhibit the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of other drugs when tramadol is administered concomitantly at therapeutic doses. Tramadol does not appear to induce its own metabolism in humans, since observed maximal plasma concentrations after multiple oral doses are higher than expected based on single-dose data. Poor/Extensive Metabolizers, CYP2D6 The formation of the active metabolite, M1, is mediated by CYP2D6, a polymorphic enzyme. Approximately 7% of the population has reduced activity of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme of cytochrome P450 metabolizing enzyme system. These individuals are “poor metabolizers” of debrisoquine, dextromethorphan and tricyclic antidepressants, among other drugs. Based on a population PK analysis of Phase 1 studies with IR tablets in healthy subjects, concentrations of tramadol were approximately 20% higher in "poor metabolizers" versus "extensive metabolizers," while M1 concentrations were 40% lower. CYP2D6 Inhibitors In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol. Quinidine Tramadol is metabolized to active metabolite M1 by CYP2D6. Coadministration of quinidine, a selective inhibitor of CYP2D6, with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets resulted in a 50 to 60% increase in tramadol exposure and a 50 to 60% decrease in M1 exposure. The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown. To evaluate the effect of tramadol, a CYP2D6 substrate on quinidine, an in vitro drug interaction study in human liver microsomes was conducted. The results from this study indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since tramadol is also metabolized by CYP3A4, administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole and erythromycin, or CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin and St. John’s Wort, with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of tramadol IR tablets with cimetidine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, does not result in clinically significant changes in tramadol pharmacokinetics. No alteration of the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage regimen with cimetidine is recommended. Carbamazepine Carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 inducer, increases tramadol metabolism. Patients taking carbamazepine may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol. Concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended. tramadol-figure1 tramadol-figure2

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets contain tramadol, an opioid agonist and an inhibitor of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Although the mode of action of tramadol is not completely understood, the analgesic effect of tramadol is believed to be due to both binding to μ-opioid receptors and weak inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Opioid activity of tramadol is due to both low affinity binding of the parent compound and higher affinity binding of the O-desmethyl metabolite M1 to μ-opioid receptors. In animal models, M1 is up to 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in μ-opioid binding. Tramadol-induced analgesia is only partially antagonized by the opioid antagonist naloxone in several animal tests. The relative contribution of both tramadol and M1 to human analgesia is dependent upon the plasma concentrations of each compound. Tramadol has been shown to inhibit reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in vitro , as have some other opioid analgesics. These mechanisms may contribute independently to the overall analgesic profile of tramadol. Apart from analgesia, tramadol administration may produce a constellation of symptoms (including dizziness, somnolence, nausea, constipation, sweating and pruritus) similar to that of other opioids. In contrast to morphine, tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release. At therapeutic doses, tramadol has no effect on heart rate, left-ventricular function, or cardiac index. Orthostatic hypotension has been observed.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Tramadol hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1) • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: • all children younger than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] • Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7)] . • Children younger than 12 years of age (4) • Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. (4) • Significant respiratory depression (4) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment (4) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) • Hypersensitivity to tramadol (4) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days (4)

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; RISK EVALUATION AND MITIGATION STRATEGY (REMS); LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; ULTRA-RAPID METABOLISM OF TRAMADOL AND OTHER RISK FACTORS FOR LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION IN CHILDREN; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; INTERACTIONS WITH DRUGS AFFECTING CYTOCHROME P450 ISOENZYMES; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets expose patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient's risk prior to prescribing tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors and conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a REMS for these products [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to • complete a REMS-compliant education program, • counsel patients and/or their caregivers, with every prescription, on safe use, serious risks, storage, and disposal of these products, • emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide every time it is provided by their pharmacist, and • consider other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or following a dose increase. Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets intact, and not to cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve the tablets to avoid exposure to a potentially fatal dose of tramadol [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Accidental Ingestion Accidental ingestion of even one dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of tramadol [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Ultra-Rapid Metabolism Of Tramadol And Other Risk Factors For Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression In Children Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received tramadol. Some of the reported cases followed tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy; in at least one case, the child had evidence of being an ultra-rapid metabolizer of tramadol due to a CYP2D6 polymorphism [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in children younger than 12 years of age and in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid the use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Interactions with Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol are complex. Use of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, tramadol, and the active metabolite, M1 [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7) ]. Risks From Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Drug Interactions (7) ]. • Reserve concomitant prescribing of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release injection and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. • Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. • Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; RISK EVALUATION AND MITIGATION STRATEGY (REMS); LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; ULTRA-RAPID METABOLISM OF TRAMADOL AND OTHER RISK FACTORS FOR LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION IN CHILDREN; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; INTERACTIONS WITH DRUGS AFFECTING CYTOCHROME P450 ISOENZYMES; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning . • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets expose users to risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess patient’s risk before prescribing and monitor regularly for these behaviors and conditions. ( 5.1 ) • To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. (5.2) • Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur. Monitor closely, especially upon initiation or following a dose increase. Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets intact, and not to cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve the tablets to avoid exposure to a potentially fatal dose of tramadol. ( 5.3 ) • Accidental ingestion of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of tramadol. ( 5.3 ) • Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received tramadol. Some of the reported cases followed tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy; in at least one case, the child had evidence of being an ultra-rapid metabolizer of tramadol due to a CYP2D6 polymorphism ( 5.4 ). Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in children younger than 12 years of age and in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( 4 ) . Avoid the use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Prolonged use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. If prolonged opioid use is required in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. ( 5.5 ) • The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol are complex. Use of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, tramadol, and the active metabolite, M1 ( 5.6 , 7 ) • Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate; limit dosages and durations to the minimum required; and follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. ( 5.7 , 7 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • To be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable in use of potent opioids for management of chronic pain. ( 2.1 ) • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) • Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol. Do not use with other tramadol products. ( 2.1 ) • Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 ). • For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 ) • For patients currently on tramadol IR, calculate total 24-hr IR dose, and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance. See full prescribing information for instructions on conversion, titration, and maintenance of therapy. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. • Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets concomitantly with other tramadol products [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), (5.14) ]. • Do not administer tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)], and to take it with liquid. Crushing, chewing, splitting, or dissolving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of tramadol and can lead to overdose or death [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.7)]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Initial Dosage Patients Not Currently on a Tramadol Product The initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is 100 mg once daily. Patients Currently on Tramadol Immediate-Release (IR) Products Calculate the 24-hour tramadol IR dose and initiate a total daily dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets rounded down to the next lower 100 mg increment. The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need. Due to limitations in flexibility of dose selection with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, some patients maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Conversion from Other Opioids to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy is initiated. There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet 100 mg once a day. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets by 100 mg every five days to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. The maximum daily dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 300 mg per day. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dosage adjustment of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail, in other sections: • Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Tramadol and Other Risk Factors for Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Interactions with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Serotonin Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] • Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] • Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] • Severe Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions( 5.16 )] • Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )] Most common adverse reactions (≥10% and ≥2 x placebo rate): Dizziness, constipation, nausea, headache, somnolence, flushing, pruritus, vomiting, insomnia, dry mouth. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc. at 1-800-818-4555 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets were administered to a total of 3108 patients during studies conducted in the U.S. These included four double-blind studies in patients with osteoarthritis and/or chronic low back pain and one open-label study in patients with chronic non-malignant pain. A total of 901 patients were 65 years or older. The frequency of adverse reactions generally increased with doses from 100 mg to 400 mg in the two pooled, twelve-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with chronic non-malignant pain (see Table 1). The most common adverse reactions from Table 1 occurring in ≥10% and ≥2 x placebo rate of the patients treated with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are dizziness (not vertigo), nausea, constipation, headache, somnolence, flushing, pruritus, vomiting, insomnia, and dry mouth. Table 1: Incidence (%) of patients with adverse reaction rates ≥ 5% from two 12-week placebo-controlled studies in patients with moderate to moderately severe chronic pain by dose (N=1811). MedDRA Preferred Term Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 100 mg (N=403) n (%) 200 mg (N=400) n (%) 300 mg (N=400) n (%) 400 mg (N=202) n (%) (N=406) n (%) Dizziness (not vertigo ) 64 (16) 81 (20) 90 (23) 57 (28) 28 (7) Nausea 61 (15) 90 (23) 102 (26) 53 (26) 32 (8) Constipation 49 (12) 68 (17) 85 (21) 60 (30) 17 (4) Headache 49 (12) 62 (16) 46 (12) 32 (16) 43 (11) Somnolence 33 (8) 45 (11) 29 (7) 41 (20) 7 (2) Flushing 31 (8) 40 (10) 35 (9) 32 (16) 18 (4) Pruritus 25 (6) 34 (9) 30 (8) 24 (12) 4 (1) Vomiting 20 (5) 29 (7) 34 (9) 19 (9) 11 ( 3) Insomnia 26 (7) 32 (8) 36 (9) 22 (11) 13 (3) Dry Mouth 20 (5) 29 (7) 39 (10) 18 (9) 6 (2) Diarrhea 15 (4) 27 (7) 37 (9) 10 (5) 17 (4) Asthenia 14 (4) 24 (6) 26 (7) 13 (6) 7 (2) Postural hypotension 7 (2) 17 (4) 8 (2) 11 (5) 9 (2) Sweating increased 6 (2) 8 (2) 15 (4) 13 (6) 1 (0) Anorexia 3 (1) 7 (2) 21 (5) 12 (6) 1 (0) Adverse reactions With Incidence Rates of 1.0% to <5.0% During Clinical Trials The following adverse reactions were reported from all the chronic pain studies (N=3108). The lists below include adverse reactions not otherwise noted in Table 1. Eye disorders: vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain upper, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, sore throat General disorders: weakness, pain, feeling hot, influenza like illness, fall, rigors, lethargy, pyrexia, chest pain Infections and infestations: nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, influenza, gastroenteritis viral, urinary tract infection, bronchitis Investigations: blood creatine phosphokinase increased, weight decreased Metabolism and nutrition disorders: appetite decreased Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders: arthralgia, back pain, pain in limb, neck pain Nervous system disorders: tremor, paresthesia, hypoesthesia Psychiatric disorders: nervousness, anxiety, depression, restlessness Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: sneezing, cough, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, dyspnea, sinus congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: sweating increased, dermatitis Vascular disorders: hot flushes, vasodilatation Adverse Reactions With Incidence Rates of 0.5% to <1.0% and Serious Adverse Reactions Reported in at Least 2 patients During Clinical Trials Cardiac disorders: palpitations, myocardial infarction Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus, vertigo Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence, toothache, constipation aggravated, appendicitis, pancreatitis General disorders: feeling jittery, edema lower limb, shivering, joint swelling, malaise, drug withdrawal syndrome, peripheral swelling Hepato-biliary disorders: cholelithiasis, cholecystitis Infections and infestations: cellulitis, ear infection, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, viral infection Injury and poisoning: joint sprain, muscle injury Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, blood pressure increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, heart rate increased, blood glucose increased, liver function tests abnormal Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders: muscle cramps, muscle spasms, joint stiffness, muscle twitching, myalgia, osteoarthritis aggravated Nervous system disorders: migraine, sedation, syncope, disturbance in attention, dizziness aggravated Psychiatric disorders: euphoric mood, irritability, libido decreased, sleep disorder, agitation, disorientation, abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders: difficulty in micturition, urinary frequency, hematuria, dysuria, urinary retention Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: yawning Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: contusion, piloerection, clamminess, night sweats, urticaria Vascular disorders: hypertension aggravated, hypertension, peripheral ischemia 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tramadol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serotonin syndrome: Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs. Adrenal insufficiency: Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Anaphylaxis: Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Androgen deficiency: Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. QT prolongation/torsade de pointes: Cases of QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes have been reported with tramadol use. Many of these cases were reported in patients taking another drug labeled for QT prolongation, in patients with a risk factor for QT prolongation (e.g., hypokalemia), or in overdose setting. Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hyponatremia: cases of severe hyponatremia and/or SIADH have been reported in patients taking tramadol, most often in females over the age of 65, and within the first week of therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)]. Hypoglycemia: Cases of hypoglycemia have been reported in patients taking tramadol. Most reports were in patients with predisposing risk factors, including diabetes or renal insufficiency, or in elderly patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20)] .

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. Since M1 is a more potent µ-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, follow patients closely for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures, and serotonin syndrome. If a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider lowering tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Follow patients closely for adverse events including respiratory depression and sedation. Examples Quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine and bupropion Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and may result in a greater amount of metabolism via CYP2D6 and greater levels of M1. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy and possibly signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Follow patients closely for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and follow patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Examples Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures and serotonin syndrome, and potentially fatal respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage reduction and monitor for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Patients taking carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 inducer, may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol. Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol, concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.7)]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome . Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Tramadol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.7)] Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity. Intervention: Follow patients for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust the dosage of digoxin as needed. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of alteration of warfarin effect, including elevation of prothrombin times. Intervention: Monitor the prothrombin time of patients on warfarin for signs of an interaction and adjust the dosage of warfarin as needed. • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.17 , 7 )

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy may cause neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Available data with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, tramadol administration during organogenesis decreased fetal weights and reduced ossification in mice, rats, and rabbits at 1.4, 0.6, and 3.6 times the maximum recommended human daily dosage (MRHD). Tramadol decreased pup body weight and increased pup mortality at 1.2 and 1.9 times the MRHD [see Data]. Based on animal data, advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea, and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. Observe newborns for symptoms and signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Neonatal seizures, neonatal withdrawal syndrome, fetal death and stillbirth have been reported with tramadol during post-approval use of tramadol immediate-release products. Labor or Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects in neonates. An opioid antagonist, such as naloxone, must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor, when use of shorter-acting analgesics or other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioid analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. However, this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation, which tends to shorten labor. Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. Tramadol has been shown to cross the placenta. The mean ratio of serum tramadol in the umbilical veins compared to maternal veins was 0.83 for 40 women given tramadol during labor. The effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, if any, on the later growth, development, and functional maturation of the child is unknown. Data Animal Data Tramadol has been shown to be embryotoxic and fetotoxic in mice, (120 mg/kg), rats (25 mg/kg) and rabbits (75 mg/kg) at maternally toxic dosages, but was not teratogenic at these dose levels. These doses on a mg/m 2 basis are 1.9, 0.8, and 4.9 times the maximum recommended human daily dosage (MRHD) for mouse, rat and rabbit, respectively. No drug-related teratogenic effects were observed in progeny of mice (up to 140 mg/kg), rats (up to 80 mg/kg) or rabbits (up to 300 mg/kg) treated with tramadol by various routes. Embryo and fetal toxicity consisted primarily of decreased fetal weights, decreased skeletal ossification, and increased supernumerary ribs at maternally toxic dose levels. Transient delays in developmental or behavioral parameters were also seen in pups from rat dams allowed to deliver. Embryo and fetal lethality were reported only in one rabbit study at 300 mg/kg, a dose that would cause extreme maternal toxicity in the rabbit. The dosages listed for mouse, rat, and rabbit are 2.3, 2.6, and 19 times the MRHD, respectively. Tramadol was evaluated in pre- and post-natal studies in rats. Progeny of dams receiving oral (gavage) dose levels of 50 mg/kg (1.6 times the MRHD) or greater had decreased weights, and pup survival was decreased early in lactation at 80 mg/kg (2.6 times the MRHD).

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Chronic use of opioids may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential. It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ), Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.1 ) ].

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established. Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received tramadol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . In some of the reported cases, these events followed tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy, and one of the children had evidence of being an ultra-rapid metabolizer of tramadol (i.e., multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 2D6). Children with sleep apnea may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than age 12 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for post-operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. • Avoid the use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Risk factors include conditions associated with hypoventilation, such as postoperative status, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity, severe pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disease, and concomitant use of other medications that cause respiratory depression. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Nine-hundred-one elderly (65 years of age or older) subjects were exposed to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in clinical trials. Of those subjects, 156 were 75 years of age and older. In general, higher incidence rates of adverse events were observed for patients older than 65 years of age compared with patients 65 years and younger, particularly for the following adverse events: constipation, fatigue, weakness, postural hypotension and dyspepsia. For this reason, tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be used with caution in patients over 65 years of age, and with even greater caution in patients older than 75 years of age [see Dosage and Administration ( 2. 5), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids, and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioidtolerant or when opioids were co-administered with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets slowly in geriatric patients and monitor closely for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Tramadol is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdosage with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets can be manifested by respiratory depression, somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, constricted pupils, and, in some cases, pulmonary edema, bradycardia, QT prolongation, hypotension, partial or complete airway obstruction, atypical snoring, and death. Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose, priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation, if needed. Employ other supportive measures (including oxygen and vasopressors) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated. Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life-support techniques. Opioid antagonists, such as naloxone, are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose. For clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to tramadol overdose, administer an opioid antagonist. While naloxone will reverse some, but not all, symptoms caused by overdosage with tramadol, the risk of seizures is also increased with naloxone administration. In animals, convulsions following the administration of toxic doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets could be suppressed with barbiturates or benzodiazepines but were increased with naloxone. Naloxone administration did not change the lethality of an overdose in mice. Hemodialysis is not expected to be helpful in an overdose because it removes less than 7% of the administered dose in a 4-hour dialysis period. Because the duration of opioid reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of tramadol in tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably reestablished. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will continue to release tramadol and add to the tramadol load for 24 to 48 hours or longer following ingestion, necessitating prolonged monitoring. If the response to an opioid antagonist is suboptimal or only brief in nature, administer additional antagonist as directed by the product’s prescribing information. In an individual physically dependent on opioids, administration of the recommended usual dosage of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered. If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient, administration of the antagonist should be initiated with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical Trial Experience Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets were studied in patients with chronic, moderate to moderately severe pain due to osteoarthritis and/or low back pain in four 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. To qualify for inclusion into these studies, patients were required to have moderate to moderately severe pain as defined by a pain intensity score of ≥40 mm, off previous medications, on a 0 to 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS). Adequate evidence of efficacy was demonstrated in the following two studies: Study 1 : Osteoarthritis of the Knee and/or Hip In one 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, patients with moderate to moderately severe pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee and/or hip were administered doses from 100 mg to 400 mg daily. Treatment was initiated at 100 mg QD for four days then increased by 100 mg per day increments every five days to the randomized fixed dose. Between 51% and 59% of patients in the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets treatment groups completed the study and 56% of patients in the placebo group completed the study. Discontinuations due to adverse events were more common in the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets 200 mg, 300 mg and 400 mg treatment groups (20%, 27%, and 30% of discontinuations, respectively) compared to 14% of the patients treated with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets 100 mg and 10% of patients treated with placebo. Pain, as assessed by the WOMAC Pain subscale, was measured at 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 weeks and change from baseline assessed. A responder analysis based on the percent change in WOMAC Pain subscale demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in pain for the 100 mg and 200 mg treatment groups compared to placebo (see Figure 2). Study 2: Osteoarthritis of the Knee In one 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled flexible-dosing trial of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee, patients titrated to an average daily tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dose of approximately 270 mg/day. Forty-nine percent of patients randomized to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets completed the study, while 52% of patients randomized to placebo completed the study. Most of the early discontinuations in the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets treatment group were due to adverse events, accounting for 27% of the early discontinuations in contrast to 7% of the discontinuations from the placebo group. Thirty-seven percent of the placebo-treated patients discontinued the study due to lack of efficacy compared to 15% of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets-treated patients. The tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets group demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in the mean VAS score, and a statistically significant difference in the responder rate, based on the percent change from baseline in the VAS score, measured at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks, between patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and placebo (see Figure 3). tramadol-figure3 tramadol-figure4

SPL TEXT:
TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE TRAMADOL STARCH, CORN HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MANNITOL MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE ACETATE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED SHELLAC BUTYL ALCOHOL PROPYLENE GLYCOL AMMONIA FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE 533