DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets contain ezetimibe USP, a selective inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol and related phytosterol absorption, and simvastatin USP, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. The chemical name of ezetimibe, USP is 1-(4-fluorophenyl)-3(R)-[3-(4-fluorophenyl)-3(S)-hydroxypropyl]-4(S)-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-azetidinone. The molecular formula is C 24 H 21 F 2 NO 3 and its molecular weight is 409.4. Ezetimibe, USP is a white, crystalline powder that is freely to very soluble in ethanol, methanol, and acetone and practically insoluble in water. Its structural formula is: Simvastatin, USP, an inactive lactone, is hydrolyzed to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid form, which is an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Simvastatin, USP is butanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-,1,2,3,7,8,8a-hexahydro-3,7-dimethyl-8-[2-(tetrahydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-2 H -pyran-2-yl)-ethyl]-1-naphthalenyl ester, [1 S -[1α,3α,7β,8β(2 S *,4 S *),-8aβ]]. The molecular formula of simvastatin, USP is C 25 H 38 O 5 and its molecular weight is 418.57. Simvastatin, USP is a white to off-white, nonhygroscopic, crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in chloroform, methanol and ethanol. Its structural formula is: Ezetimibe and simvastatin is available for oral use as tablets containing 10 mg of ezetimibe USP, and 10 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/10 mg), 20 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/20 mg), 40 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg), or 80 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg). Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: ascorbic acid, butylated hydroxyanisole, citric acid anhydrous, croscarmellose sodium, hypromellose, iron oxide black, iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and propyl gallate. formula 1 formula 2

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Plasma cholesterol is derived from intestinal absorption and endogenous synthesis. Ezetimibe and simvastatin contains ezetimibe and simvastatin, two lipid-lowering compounds with complementary mechanisms of action. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe reduces blood cholesterol by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol by the small intestine. The molecular target of ezetimibe has been shown to be the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. Ezetimibe localizes at the brush border of the small intestine and inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. This causes a reduction of hepatic cholesterol stores and an increase in clearance of cholesterol from the blood. Simvastatin Simvastatin is a prodrug and is hydrolyzed to its active β-hydroxyacid form, simvastatin acid, after administration. Simvastatin acid and its metabolites are inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme converts HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a precursor of cholesterol. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Ezetimibe and simvastatin reduces total cholesterol (total-C), LDL-C, apolipoprotein (Apo) B, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) in patients with hyperlipidemia. Ezetimibe In a 2-week clinical trial in 18 hypercholesterolemic patients, ezetimibe inhibited intestinal cholesterol absorption by 54%, compared with placebo. Ezetimibe had no clinically meaningful effect on the plasma concentrations of the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, and E and did not impair adrenocortical steroid hormone production. Simvastatin Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase by simvastatin acid accelerates the expression of LDL-receptors, followed by the uptake of LDL-C from blood to the liver, leading to a decrease in plasma LDL-C and total cholesterol. Sustained inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in the liver also decreases levels of very-low density lipoproteins. The maximum LDL-C reduction of ZOCOR ® is usually achieved by 4 weeks and is maintained after that. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The results of a bioequivalence trial in healthy subjects demonstrated that the ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/10 mg to 10 mg/80 mg combination tablets are bioequivalent to coadministration of corresponding doses of ezetimibe (ZETIA ® ) and simvastatin (ZOCOR ® ) as individual tablets. Absorption Ezetimibe After oral administration, ezetimibe is absorbed and extensively conjugated to a pharmacologically active phenolic glucuronide (ezetimibe-glucuronide). Mean maximum plasma concentrations (C max ) occur within 1 to 2 hours for ezetimibe-glucuronide and 4 to 12 hours for ezetimibe. The absolute bioavailability of ezetimibe cannot be determined as the compound is virtually insoluble in aqueous media suitable for injection. Simvastatin The availability of the β-hydroxyacid to the systemic circulation following an oral dose of simvastatin was found to be less than 5% of the dose, consistent with extensive hepatic first-pass extraction. Effect of Food on Oral Absorption Ezetimibe Concomitant food administration (high-fat or non-fat meals) had no effect on the extent of absorption of ezetimibe when administered as 10-mg tablets. The C max value of ezetimibe was increased by 38% with consumption of high-fat meals. Simvastatin Relative to the fasting state, the plasma profiles of both active and total inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase were not affected when simvastatin was administered immediately before an American Heart Association recommended low-fat meal. Distribution Ezetimibe Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are highly bound (greater than 90%) to human plasma proteins. Simvastatin Both simvastatin and its β-hydroxyacid metabolite are highly bound (approximately 95%) to human plasma proteins. When radiolabeled simvastatin was administered to rats, simvastatin-derived radioactivity crossed the blood-brain barrier. Elimination Metabolism Ezetimibe Ezetimibe is primarily metabolized in the small intestine and liver via glucuronide conjugation with subsequent biliary and renal excretion. Minimal oxidative metabolism has been observed in all species evaluated. In humans, ezetimibe is rapidly metabolized to ezetimibe-glucuronide. Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are the major drug-derived compounds detected in plasma, constituting approximately 10 to 20% and 80 to 90% of the total drug in plasma, respectively. Both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are eliminated from plasma with a half-life of approximately 22 hours for both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide. Plasma concentration-time profiles exhibit multiple peaks, suggesting enterohepatic recycling. Simvastatin Simvastatin is a lactone that is readily hydrolyzed in vivo to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid, a potent inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase is a basis for an assay in pharmacokinetic studies of the β-hydroxyacid metabolites (active inhibitors) and, following base hydrolysis, active plus latent inhibitors (total inhibitors) in plasma following administration of simvastatin. The major active metabolites of simvastatin present in human plasma are the β-hydroxyacid of simvastatin and its 6′-­hydroxy, 6′-hydroxymethyl, and 6′-exomethylene derivatives. Excretion Ezetimibe Following oral administration of 14C-ezetimibe (20 mg) to human subjects, total ezetimibe (ezetimibe + ezetimibe-glucuronide) accounted for approximately 93% of the total radioactivity in plasma. After 48 hours, there were no detectable levels of radioactivity in the plasma. Approximately 78% and 11% of the administered radioactivity were recovered in the feces and urine, respectively, over a 10-day collection period. Ezetimibe was the major component in feces and accounted for 69% of the administered dose, while ezetimibe-glucuronide was the major component in urine and accounted for 9% of the administered dose. Simvastatin Following an oral dose of 14 C-labeled simvastatin in man, 13% of the dose was excreted in urine and 60% in feces. Plasma concentrations of total radioactivity (simvastatin plus 14 C-metabolites) peaked at 4 hours and declined rapidly to about 10% of peak by 12 hours postdose. Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Ezetimibe In a multiple-dose trial with ezetimibe given 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe were about 2-fold higher in older (greater than or equal to 65 years) healthy subjects compared to younger subjects. Simvastatin In a trial including 16 geriatric patients between 70 and 78 years of age who received simvastatin 40 mg/day, the mean plasma level of total inhibitors activity was increased approximately 45% compared with 18 patients between 18 to 30 years of age. [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ).] Gender Ezetimibe In a multiple-dose trial with ezetimibe given 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe were slightly higher (less than 20%) in females than in males. Race Ezetimibe Based on a meta-analysis of multiple-dose pharmacokinetic studies, there were no pharmacokinetic differences between Black or African American and White subjects. Studies in Asian subjects indicated that the pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe was similar to those seen in White subjects. Hepatic Impairment Ezetimibe After a single 10-mg dose of ezetimibe, the mean exposure (based on area under the curve [AUC]) to total ezetimibe was increased approximately 1.7-fold in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6), compared to healthy subjects. The mean AUC values for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 3- to 4-fold and 5- to 6-fold, respectively, in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10 to 15). In a 14-day, multiple-dose trial (10 mg daily) in patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the mean AUC for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 4-fold compared to healthy subjects. Renal Impairment Ezetimibe After a single 10-mg dose of ezetimibe in patients with severe renal disease (n=8; mean CrCl less than or equal to 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), the mean AUC for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 1.5-fold, compared to healthy subjects (n=9). Simvastatin Pharmacokinetic studies with another statin having a similar principal route of elimination to that of simvastatin have suggested that for a given dose level higher systemic exposure may be achieved in patients with severe renal impairment (as measured by creatinine clearance). Drug Interactions [See also Drug Interactions (7).] No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction was seen when ezetimibe was coadministered with simvastatin. No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with ezetimibe and simvastatin have been conducted other than the following trial with NIASPAN (Niacin extended-release tablets). Niacin: The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin (10 mg/20 mg daily for 7 days) on the pharmacokinetics of NIASPAN extended-release tablets (1000 mg for 2 days and 2000 mg for 5 days following a low-fat breakfast) was studied in healthy subjects. The mean C max and AUC of niacin increased 9% and 22%, respectively. The mean C max and AUC of nicotinuric acid increased 10% and 19%, respectively (N=13). In the same trial, the effect of NIASPAN on the pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe and simvastatin was evaluated (N=15). While concomitant NIASPAN decreased the mean C max of total ezetimibe (1%), and simvastatin (2%), it increased the mean C max of simvastatin acid (18%). In addition, concomitant NIASPAN increased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe (26%), simvastatin (20%), and simvastatin acid (35%). Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ).] Cytochrome P450: Ezetimibe had no significant effect on a series of probe drugs (caffeine, dextromethorphan, tolbutamide, and IV midazolam) known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 (1A2, 2D6, 2C8/9 and 3A4) in a “cocktail” trial of twelve healthy adult males. This indicates that ezetimibe is neither an inhibitor nor an inducer of these cytochrome P450 isozymes, and it is unlikely that ezetimibe will affect the metabolism of drugs that are metabolized by these enzymes. In a trial of 12 healthy volunteers, simvastatin at the 80-mg dose had no effect on the metabolism of the probe cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4 (CYP3A4) substrates midazolam and erythromycin. This indicates that simvastatin is not an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and, therefore, is not expected to affect the plasma levels of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. Simvastatin acid is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Concomitant administration of medicinal products that are inhibitors of the transport protein OATP1B1 may lead to increased plasma concentrations of simvastatin acid and an increased risk of myopathy. For example, cyclosporine has been shown to increase the AUC of statins; although the mechanism is not fully understood, the increase in AUC for simvastatin acid is presumably due, in part, to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or OATP1B1 [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Simvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 can raise the plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity and increase the risk of myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Ezetimibe Table 5 displays the effect of coadministered drugs on total ezetimibe. Table 5: Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Total Ezetimibe Coadministered Drug and Dosing Regimen Total Ezetimibe * Change in AUC Change in C max Cyclosporine-stable dose required (75 to 150 mg BID) †, ‡ ↑­240% ↑­290% Fenofibrate, 200 mg QD, 14 days ‡ ↑­48% ↑­64% Gemfibrozil, 600 mg BID, 7 days ‡ ↑­64% ­↑91% Cholestyramine, 4 g BID, 14 days ‡ ↓55% ↓4% Aluminum & magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, single dose § ↓4% ↓30% Cimetidine, 400 mg BID, 7 days ↑­6% ↑­22% Glipizide, 10 mg, single dose ­↑4% ↓8% Statins Lovastatin 20 mg QD, 7 days ↑­9% ­↑3% Pravastatin 20 mg QD, 14 days ­↑7% ↑­23% Atorvastatin 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓2% ↑­12% Rosuvastatin 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑­13% ↑­18% Fluvastatin 20 mg QD, 14 days 19% ↑­7% * Based on 10 mg-dose of ezetimibe. † Post-renal transplant patients with mild impaired or normal renal function. In a different trial, a renal transplant patient with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance of 13.2 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) who was receiving multiple medications, including cyclosporine, demonstrated a 12-fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe compared to healthy subjects. ‡ See 7. Drug Interactions. § Supralox, 20 mL. Table 6 displays the effects of ezetimibe coadministration on systemic exposure to other drugs. Table 6: Effect of Ezetimibe Coadministration on Systemic Exposure to Other Drugs Coadministered Drug and its Ezetimibe Dosage Change in AUC Change in C max Dosage Regimen Regimen of Coadministered Drug of Coadministered Drug Warfarin, 25 mg single dose on 10 mg QD, 11 days ↓2% (R-warfarin) ↑­3% (R-warfarin) Day 7 ↓4% (S-warfarin) ↑­1% (S-warfarin) Digoxin, 0.5 mg single dose 10 mg QD, 8 days ↑­2% ↓7% Gemfibrozil, 600 mg BID, 10 mg QD, 7 days ↓1% ↓11% 7 days* Ethinyl estradiol & 10 mg QD, Days 8-14 of Ethinyl estradiol Ethinyl estradiol Levonorgestrel, QD, 21 days 21 day oral contraceptive 0% ↓9% cycle Levonorgestrel Levonorgestrel 0% ↓5% Glipizide, 10 mg on Days 1 10 mg QD, Days 2-9 ↓3% ↓5% and 9 Fenofibrate, 200 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑­11% ↑­7% 14 days * Cyclosporine, 100 mg single 20 mg QD, 8 days ↑­15% ↑­10% dose Day 7* Statins Lovastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 7 days ↑­19% ↑­3% 7 days Pravastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓20% ↓24% 14 days Atorvastatin 10 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓4% ↑­7% 14 days Rosuvastatin 10 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑­19% ↑­17% 14 days Fluvastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓39% ↓27% 14 days * See 7. Drug Interactions. Simvastatin Table 7 displays the effects of coadminstration drugs or grapefruit juice on simvastatin systemic exposure [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Table 7: Effect of Coadministered Drugs or Grapefruit Juice on Simvastatin Systemic Exposure Coadministered Drug or Grapefruit Juice Dosing of Coadministered Drug or Grapefruit Juice Dosing of Simvastatin Geometric Mean Ratio (Ratio * with / without coadministered drug) No Effect = 1.00 AUC C max Telithromycin † 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 12 8.9 15 5.3 Nelfinavir † 1250 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg QD for 28 days simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 6 6.2 Itraconazole † 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 13.1 13.1 Posaconazole 100 mg (oral suspension) QD for 13 days 200 mg (oral suspension) QD for 13 days 40 mg 40 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 7.3 10.3 8.5 10.6 9.2 9.4 9.5 11.4 Gemfibrozil 600 mg BID for 3 days 40 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 2.85 1.35 2.18 0.91 Grapefruit Juice § (high dose) 200 mL of double-strength TID ¶ 60 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 7 16 Grapefruit Juice § (low dose) 8 oz (about 237 mL) of single-strength # 20 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.3 1.9 Verapamil SR 240 mg QD Days 1-7 then 240 mg BID on Days 8-10 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.3 2.5 2.4 2.1 Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.69 3.10 2.69 2.88 Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg on Day 14 simvastatin 4.6 3.6 Dronedarone 400 mg BID for 14 days 40 mg QD for 14 days simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.96 3.90 2.14 3.75 Amiodarone 400 mg QD for 3 days 40 mg on Day 3 simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.75 1.76 1.72 1.79 Amlodipine 10 mg QD for 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.58 1.77 1.56 1.47 Ranolazine SR 1000 mg BID for 7 days 80 mg on Day 1 and Days 6-9 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.26 1.86 2.28 1.75 Lomitapide 60 mg QD for 7 days 40 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.7 2 1.6 2 Lomitapide 10 mg QD for 7 days 20 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.7 Fenofibrate 160 mg QD for 14 days 80 mg QD on Days 8-14 simvastatin acid simvastatin 0.64 0.89 0.89 0.83 Propranolol 80 mg single dose 80 mg single dose total inhibitor active inhibitor 0.79 0.79 ↓ from 33.6 to 21.1 ng·eq/mL ↓ from 7.0 to 4.7 ng·eq/mL * Results based on a chemical assay except results with propranolol as indicated. † Results could be representative of the following CYP3A4 inhibitors: ketoconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, and nefazodone. ‡ Simvastatin acid refers to the β-hydroxyacid of simvastatin. § The effect of amounts of grapefruit juice between those used in these two studies on simvastatin pharmacokinetics has not been studied. ¶ Double-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with one can of water. Grapefruit juice was administered TID for 2 days, and 200 mL together with single dose simvastatin and 30 and 90 minutes following single dose simvastatin on Day 3. # Single-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with 3 cans of water. Grapefruit juice was administered with breakfast for 3 days, and simvastatin was administered in the evening on Day 3.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Plasma cholesterol is derived from intestinal absorption and endogenous synthesis. Ezetimibe and simvastatin contains ezetimibe and simvastatin, two lipid-lowering compounds with complementary mechanisms of action. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe reduces blood cholesterol by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol by the small intestine. The molecular target of ezetimibe has been shown to be the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. Ezetimibe localizes at the brush border of the small intestine and inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. This causes a reduction of hepatic cholesterol stores and an increase in clearance of cholesterol from the blood. Simvastatin Simvastatin is a prodrug and is hydrolyzed to its active β-hydroxyacid form, simvastatin acid, after administration. Simvastatin acid and its metabolites are inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme converts HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a precursor of cholesterol.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are a combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe indicated: As an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C): In adults with primary hyperlipidemia. In adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). Simvastatin Simvastatin, when used as a component of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, is indicated to reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are a combination of ezetimibe, a dietary cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) As an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C): In adults with primary hyperlipidemia. In adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). Simvastatin Simvastatin, when used as a component of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, is indicated to reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications, and nefazodone) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or danazol [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity to simvastatin, ezetimibe, or any excipients in ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications and nefazodone). ( 4 ) Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol or gemfibrozil. ( 4 ) Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to simvastatin, ezetimibe or any excipient of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Information: ( 2.1 ) Take ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets orally once daily in the evening with or without food. Maximum recommended dosage is ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg once daily. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg daily dosage is restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. If as dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Do not double the next dose. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 2 weeks after initiating ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. Adults : Recommended dosage range of 10 mg/10 mg to 10 mg/40 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) See full prescribing information for ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.3 ) Patients with Renal Impairment: Doses exceeding 10 mg/20 mg should be used with caution and close monitoring in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets orally once daily in the evening with or without food. The maximum recommended dosage is ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg once daily. The ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg daily dosage is restricted to adult patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. If a dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Do not double the next dose. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended dosage range of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/10 mg to 10 mg/40 mg once a day. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended dosage range of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/10 mg to 10 mg/40 mg once a day. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Renal impairment is a risk factor for statin-associated myopathy. Doses of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets exceeding 10 mg/20 mg should be used with caution and close monitoring in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild renal impairment. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modification of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Patients taking Lomitapide Reduce the dosage of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets by 50%. Do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/20 mg once daily (or 10 mg/40 mg once daily for patients who have previously taken ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg daily chronically while taking lomitapide) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone Do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/10 mg once daily. Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine, or Ranolazine Do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/20 mg once daily. Patients taking Bile Acid Sequestrants In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Hepatic Dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Increases in HbA1c and Fasting Serum Glucose Levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Common (incidence greater than or equal to 2% and greater than placebo) adverse reactions in clinical trials: headache, increased ALT, myalgia, upper respiratory tract infection, and diarrhea. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Ezetimibe and Simvastatin In the ezetimibe and simvastatin placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1420 patients (age range 20 to 83 years, 52% female, 87% White, 3% Black or African American, 3% Asians, 5% other races identified as Hispanic or Latino ethnicity) with a median treatment duration of 27 weeks, 5% of patients on ezetimibe and simvastatin and 2.2% of patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse reactions. The most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence ≥2% and greater than placebo) in controlled clinical trials were: headache (5.8%), increased ALT (3.7%), myalgia (3.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (3.6%), and diarrhea (2.8%). The most common adverse reactions in the group treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were: increased ALT (0.9%), myalgia (0.6%), increased AST (0.4%), and back pain (0.4%). Ezetimibe and simvastatin have been evaluated for safety in more than 10,189 patients in clinical trials. Table 1 summarizes the frequency of clinical adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin (n=1420) and at an incidence greater than placebo from four placebo-controlled trials. Table 1*: Adverse Reactions Reported greater than or equal to 2% of Patients Treated with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin at an Incidence Greater than Placebo Regardless of Causality % Placebo N=371 % Ezetimibe 10 mg N=302 % Simvastatin † N=1234 % Ezetimibe and Simvastatin † N=1420 Headache 5.4 6.0 5.9 5.8 Upper respiratory tract infection 2.7 5.0 5.0 3.6 Myalgia 2.4 2.3 2.6 3.6 Diarrhea 2.2 5.0 3.7 2.8 Pain in extremity 1.3 3.0 2.0 2.3 Influenza 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.3 * Includes two placebo-controlled combination studies in which the active ingredients equivalent to ezetimibe and simvastatin were coadministered and two placebo-controlled studies in which ezetimibe and simvastatin was administered. †All doses. Study of Heart and Renal Protection In SHARP, 9270 patients were allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily (n=4650) or placebo (n=4620) for a median follow-up period of 4.9 years. The proportion of patients who permanently discontinued trial treatment as a result of either an adverse event or abnormal safety blood result was 10.4% vs. 9.8% among patients allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Comparing those allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin vs. placebo, the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum CK greater than 10 times ULN) was 0.2% vs. 0.1% and the incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) was 0.09% vs. 0.02%, respectively. Consecutive elevations of transaminases (greater than 3 X ULN) occurred in 0.7% vs. 0.6%, respectively. Patients were asked about the occurrence of unexplained muscle pain or weakness at each trial visit: 21.5% vs. 20.9% patients ever reported muscle symptoms in the ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo groups, respectively. Cancer was diagnosed during the trial in 9.4% vs. 9.5% of patients assigned to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Ezetimibe Other adverse reactions reported with ezetimibe in placebo-controlled studies, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal system disorders: arthralgia; Infections and infestations: sinusitis; Body as a whole – general disorders: fatigue. Simvastatin In a clinical outcome trial in which 12,064 adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with simvastatin (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] greater than 10 times (1200 U/L) upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients taking simvastatin 20 mg and 80 mg daily was approximately 0.02% and 0.9% respectively. The incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) in patients taking simvastatin 20 mg and 80 mg daily was approximately 0% and 0.4%. The incidence of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products were excluded. Other adverse reactions reported with simvastatin in placebo-controlled clinical trials: atrial fibrillation; vertigo; abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis; eczema, rash; diabetes mellitus; bronchitis, sinusitis, urinary tract infections; asthenia, edema/swelling; and insomnia. Laboratory Tests Marked persistent increases of hepatic serum transaminases have been noted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Elevated alkaline phosphatase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase have been reported. About 5% of patients taking simvastatin had elevations of CK levels of 3 or more times the normal value on one or more occasions. This was attributable to the noncardiac fraction of CK [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ezetimibe and simvastatin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as Whole: fever, chills, malaise, asthenia Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, eosinophilia Gastrointestinal Disorders: pancreatitis, nausea, vomiting Hepatobiliary Disorders: cholelithiasis, cholecystitis, elevations in liver transaminases including elevations more than 5 X ULN, hepatitis/jaundice, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure Immune System Disorders: hypersensitivity syndrome including: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematous-like syndrome, dermatomyositis, vasculitis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscle cramps, immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, myalgia, arthralgia, polymyalgia rheumatica, arthritis, elevated creatine phosphokinase Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, depression, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, rare reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. Cognitive impairment was generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). There have been rare reports of new-onset or exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia, and reports of recurrence when the same or a different statin was administered. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash, pruritus, alopecia, a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of skin/mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails), purpura, lichen planus, urticaria, photosensitivity, flushing, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Respiratory and Thoracic: interstitial lung disease, dyspnea Reproductive System Disorders: erectile dysfunction

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ezetimibe and S imvastatin See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) Cholestyramine : Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.2 ) Coumarin Anticoagulants: Obtain INR before ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets initiation and monitor INR during ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets dosage initiation or adjustment. ( 7.3 ) Digoxin : During ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets initiation, monitor digoxin levels. ( 7.3 ) Fenofibrates : Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Ezetimibe and Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and of the transport protein OATP1B1. Ezetimibe and Simvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Clinical Impact: Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with ezetimibe and simvastatin increases simvastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher ezetimibe and simvastatin dosages. Intervention: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with ezetimibe and simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. If treatment with a CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin during the course of strong CYP3A4 inhibitor treatment. Examples: Select azole anti-fungals (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole), select macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin, telithromycin), select HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, and darunavir/ritonavir), select HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), cobicistat-containing products, and nefazodone. Cyclosporine, Danazol, or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with ezetimibe and simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: For patients taking verapamil, diltiazem, or dronedarone, do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/10 mg daily. For patients taking amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine, do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Lomitapide Clinical Impact: Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased. Intervention: Reduce the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Do not exceed ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily (or ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/40 mg daily for patients who have previously taken ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/80 mg daily chronically) while taking lomitapide [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.3 )]. Daptomycin Clinical Impact: Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with simvastatin administered with daptomycin. Both ezetimibe and simvastatin and daptomycin can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when given alone and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased by coadministration. Intervention: If treatment with daptomycin is required, consider temporarily suspending ezetimibe and simvastatin during the course of daptomycin treatment. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin-containing products (≥1 gram/day niacin) with ezetimibe and simvastatin. The risk of myopathy is greater in Chinese patients. In a clinical trial (median follow-up 3.9 years) of patients at high risk of CVD and with well-controlled LDL-C levels on simvastatin 40 mg/day with or without ezetimibe 10 mg/day, there was no incremental benefit on cardiovascular outcomes with the addition of lipid-modifying doses of niacin Intervention: Concomitant use of ezetimibe and simvastatin with lipid-modifying dosages of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 )]. For non-Chinese patients, consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses of niacin concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with ezetimibe and simvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with ezetimibe and simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice can raise the plasma levels of simvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid grapefruit juice when taking ezetimibe and simvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of ezetimibe and simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean exposure of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe and simvastatin to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe and simvastatin at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after cholestyramine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. 7.3 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablet's Effect on Other Drugs Table 4 Presents ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Effects on Other Drugs Coumarin Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Ezetimibe and simvastatin may potentiate the effect of coumarin anticoagulants and increase the INR. The concomitant use of simvastatin (20 to 40 mg) and coumarin anticoagulants increased the INR from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 in healthy subjects and from 2.6 to 3.4 in patients with hyperlipidemia. There are postmarketing reports of clinically evident bleeding and/or increased INR in patients taking concomitant statins (with or without ezetimibe) and coumarin anticoagulants. Intervention : In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants, obtain an INR before starting ezetimibe and simvastatin and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration, or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Once the INR is stable, monitor INR at regularly recommended intervals. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of digoxin with ezetimibe and simvastatin may result in elevated plasma digoxin concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking digoxin when ezetimibe and simvastatin is initiated. Fenofibrates Clinical Impact: Both ezetimibe and fenofibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [see the product labeling for fenofibrate and fenofibric acid].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Risk Summary Discontinue ezetimibe and simvastatin when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively, consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual patient. Ezetimibe and simvastatin decreases synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol; therefore, ezetimibe and simvastatin may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant patients based on the mechanism of action [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 )]. In addition, treatment of hyperlipidemia is not generally necessary during pregnancy. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hyperlipidemia for most patients. Available data from case series and prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies over decades of use with statins in pregnant women have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations. Published data from prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies with ezetimibe and simvastatin use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage (see Data). In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in pregnant rats or rabbits orally administered simvastatin during the period of organogenesis at doses that resulted in 2.5 and 2 times, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dosage of 80 mg/day, based on body surface area (mg/m2). In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in pregnant rats and rabbits orally administered ezetimibe during the period of organogenesis at doses that resulted in up to 10 and 150 times, respectively, the human exposure at the MRHD, based on AUC (see Data). The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Data Human Data Ezetimibe There are insufficient data on ezetimibe use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Simvastatin A Medicaid cohort linkage trial of 1152 statin-exposed pregnant women compared to 886,996 controls did not find a significant teratogenic effect from maternal use of statins in the first trimester of pregnancy, after adjusting for potential confounders – including maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, and alcohol and tobacco use – using propensity score-based methods. The relative risk of congenital malformations between the group with statin use and the group with no statin use in the first trimester was 1.07 (95% confidence interval 0.85 to 1.37) after controlling for confounders, particularly pre-existing diabetes mellitus. There were also no statistically significant increases in any of the organ-specific malformations assessed after accounting for confounders. In the majority of pregnancies, statin treatment was initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued at some point in the first trimester when pregnancy was identified. Trial limitations include reliance on physician coding to define the presence of a malformation, lack of control for certain confounders such as body mass index, use of prescription dispensing as verification for the use of a statin, and lack of information on non-live births. Animal Data Ezetimibe In oral (gavage) embryo-fetal development studies of ezetimibe conducted in rats (gestation days 6-15) and rabbits (gestation days 7-19), there was no evidence of maternal toxicity or embryolethality at any dose tested (250, 500, 1000 mg/kg/day) at exposure equivalent to 10 to 150 times the clinical exposure, based on AUC, in rats and rabbits. In rats, increased incidences of common fetal skeletal findings (extra pair of thoracic ribs, unossified cervical vertebral centra, shortened ribs) were observed at 1000 mg/kg/day (~10 times the human exposure at 10 mg daily based on AUC0-24hr for total ezetimibe). In rabbits treated with ezetimibe, an increased incidence of extra thoracic ribs was observed at 1000 mg/kg/day (150 times the human exposure at 10 mg daily based on AUC0-24hr for total ezetimibe). The animal-to-human exposure multiple for total ezetimibe at the no-observed effect level was 6 times for rat and 134 times for rabbit. Fetal exposure to ezetimibe (conjugated and unconjugated) was confirmed in subsequent placental transfer studies conducted using a maternal dose of 1000 mg/kg/day. The fetal maternal plasma exposure ratio (total ezetimibe) was 1.5 for rats on gestation day 20 and 0.03 for rabbits on gestation day 22. The effect of ezetimibe on prenatal and postnatal development and maternal function was evaluated in pregnant rats at doses of 100, 300 or 1000 mg/kg/day (gestation day 6 through lactation day 21). No maternal toxicity or adverse developmental outcomes were observed up to and including the highest dose tested (17 times the human exposure at 10 mg daily based on AUC0-24hr for total ezetimibe). Multiple-dose studies of ezetimibe given in combination with statins in rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in higher ezetimibe and statin exposures. Reproductive findings occurred at lower doses in combination therapy compared to monotherapy. Simvastatin Simvastatin was given to pregnant rats at doses of 6.25, 12.5 and 25 mg/kg/day (0.6 times, 1.3 times, and 2.5 times, respectively, the maximum recommended dosage of 80 mg/day when normalized to body surface area) from gestation days 6-17 and to pregnant rabbits from gestation days 6-18 at doses of 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg/day (0.5 times, 1 times, and 2 times, respectively, the maximum recommended dosage of 80 mg/day when normalized to body surface area). For both species, there was no evidence of maternal toxicity, or embryolethality. In rats, mean fetal body weights in the 25 mg/kg/day group were decreased 5.4%. Similar fetal body weight effects were not observed in rabbits. Simvastatin doses of 6.25, 12.5 and 25 mg/kg/day (0.6 times, 1.3 times, and 2.5 times, respectively, the maximum recommended dosage of 80 mg/day when normalized to body surface area) were given to pregnant rats from gestation day 15 to lactation day 21. Slight decreases in maternal body weight gain and pup postnatal day 0 weight were observed in the 25 mg/kg/day dose group. Mean body weight gain of pups during lactation was slightly decreased at doses ≥12.5 mg/kg/day. Post weaning weight, behavior, reproductive performance and fertility of the offspring were not affected at any dose tested. Placental transfer of simvastatin was not evaluated in rats or rabbits. However, it has been shown that other drugs in this class cross the placenta.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information about the presence of ezetimibe or simvastatin in human breast milk, the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effect of the drug on milk production. However, it has been shown that other statins pass into human milk. Statins, including ezetimibe and simvastatin, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol and may cause harm to the breast fed infant. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed infant, based on the mechanism of action, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 )]. Data Animal Data Ezetimibe was present in the milk of lactating rats. The pup to maternal plasma ratio for total ezetimibe was 0.5 on lactation day 12.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe in combination with a statin as an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C have been established in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with HeFH. Use of ezetimibe and simvastatin for this indication is based on a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 248 pediatric patients (142 males and 106 postmenarchal females) 10 years of age and older with HeFH [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. In this limited controlled trial, there was no significant effect on growth or sexual maturation in the adolescent males or females, or on menstrual cycle length in females. The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe and simvastatin have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 10 years of age with HeFH, or in pediatric patients with other types of hyperlipidemia.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Advanced age (≥65 years) is a risk factor for ezetimibe and simvastatin-associated myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, recognizing the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of myopathy. Monitor geriatric patients receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin for the increased risk of myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Of the 10,189 patients who received ezetimibe and simvastatin in clinical studies, 3242 (32%) were 65 and older (this included 844 (8%) who were 75 and older). No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific antidotes for ezetimibe and simvastatin are known. In the event of an overdose with ezetimibe and simvastatin, consider contacting the Poison Help Line (1-800-222-1222) or a medical toxicologist for overdosage management recommendations.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Ezetimibe and Simvastatin In the ezetimibe and simvastatin placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1420 patients (age range 20 to 83 years, 52% female, 87% White, 3% Black or African American, 3% Asians, 5% other races identified as Hispanic or Latino ethnicity) with a median treatment duration of 27 weeks, 5% of patients on ezetimibe and simvastatin and 2.2% of patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse reactions. The most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence ≥2% and greater than placebo) in controlled clinical trials were: headache (5.8%), increased ALT (3.7%), myalgia (3.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (3.6%), and diarrhea (2.8%). The most common adverse reactions in the group treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were: increased ALT (0.9%), myalgia (0.6%), increased AST (0.4%), and back pain (0.4%). Ezetimibe and simvastatin have been evaluated for safety in more than 10,189 patients in clinical trials. Table 1 summarizes the frequency of clinical adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin (n=1420) and at an incidence greater than placebo from four placebo-controlled trials. Table 1*: Adverse Reactions Reported greater than or equal to 2% of Patients Treated with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin at an Incidence Greater than Placebo Regardless of Causality % Placebo N=371 % Ezetimibe 10 mg N=302 % Simvastatin † N=1234 % Ezetimibe and Simvastatin † N=1420 Headache 5.4 6.0 5.9 5.8 Upper respiratory tract infection 2.7 5.0 5.0 3.6 Myalgia 2.4 2.3 2.6 3.6 Diarrhea 2.2 5.0 3.7 2.8 Pain in extremity 1.3 3.0 2.0 2.3 Influenza 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.3 * Includes two placebo-controlled combination studies in which the active ingredients equivalent to ezetimibe and simvastatin were coadministered and two placebo-controlled studies in which ezetimibe and simvastatin was administered. †All doses. Study of Heart and Renal Protection In SHARP, 9270 patients were allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily (n=4650) or placebo (n=4620) for a median follow-up period of 4.9 years. The proportion of patients who permanently discontinued trial treatment as a result of either an adverse event or abnormal safety blood result was 10.4% vs. 9.8% among patients allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Comparing those allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin vs. placebo, the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum CK greater than 10 times ULN) was 0.2% vs. 0.1% and the incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) was 0.09% vs. 0.02%, respectively. Consecutive elevations of transaminases (greater than 3 X ULN) occurred in 0.7% vs. 0.6%, respectively. Patients were asked about the occurrence of unexplained muscle pain or weakness at each trial visit: 21.5% vs. 20.9% patients ever reported muscle symptoms in the ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo groups, respectively. Cancer was diagnosed during the trial in 9.4% vs. 9.5% of patients assigned to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Ezetimibe Other adverse reactions reported with ezetimibe in placebo-controlled studies, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal system disorders: arthralgia; Infections and infestations: sinusitis; Body as a whole – general disorders: fatigue. Simvastatin In a clinical outcome trial in which 12,064 adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with simvastatin (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] greater than 10 times (1200 U/L) upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients taking simvastatin 20 mg and 80 mg daily was approximately 0.02% and 0.9% respectively. The incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) in patients taking simvastatin 20 mg and 80 mg daily was approximately 0% and 0.4%. The incidence of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products were excluded. Other adverse reactions reported with simvastatin in placebo-controlled clinical trials: atrial fibrillation; vertigo; abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis; eczema, rash; diabetes mellitus; bronchitis, sinusitis, urinary tract infections; asthenia, edema/swelling; and insomnia. Laboratory Tests Marked persistent increases of hepatic serum transaminases have been noted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Elevated alkaline phosphatase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase have been reported. About 5% of patients taking simvastatin had elevations of CK levels of 3 or more times the normal value on one or more occasions. This was attributable to the noncardiac fraction of CK [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] .

SPL TEXT:
Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 511 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 512 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 513 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 515 capsule shaped