DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets contain ezetimibe, a selective inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol and related phytosterol absorption, and simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. The chemical name of ezetimibe is 1-(4-fluorophenyl)-3(R)-[3-(4-fluorophenyl)-3(S)-hydroxypropyl]-4(S)-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-azetidinone. The molecular formula is C 24 H 21 F 2 NO 3 and its molecular weight is 409.4. Ezetimibe, USP is a white, crystalline powder that is freely to very soluble in ethanol, methanol, and acetone and practically insoluble in water. Its structural formula is: Simvastatin, USP an inactive lactone, is hydrolyzed to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid form, which is an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Simvastatin is butanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-,1,2,3,7,8,8a-hexahydro-3,7dimethyl-8-[2-(tetrahydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-2 H -pyran-2-yl)-ethyl]-1-naphthalenyl ester, [1 S -[1α,3α,7β,8β(2 S *,4 S *),-8aβ]]. The molecular formula of simvastatin is C 25 H 38 O 5 and its molecular weight is 418.57. Simvastatin, USP is a white to off-white, nonhygroscopic, crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in chloroform, methanol and ethanol. Its structural formula is: Ezetimibe and simvastatin is available for oral use as tablets containing 10 mg of ezetimibe USP, and 10 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/10 mg), 20 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/20 mg), 40 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg), or 80 mg of simvastatin, USP (ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg). Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: ascorbic acid, butylated hydroxyanisole, citric acid anhydrous, croscarmellose sodium, hypromellose, iron oxide black, iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and propyl gallate. The structural formula of Ezetimibe is a white, crystalline powder that is freely to very soluble in ethanol, methanol, and acetone and practically insoluble in water. The structural formula of Simvastatin, USP is a white to off-white, nonhygroscopic, crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in chloroform, methanol and ethanol.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Plasma cholesterol is derived from intestinal absorption and endogenous synthesis. Ezetimibe and simvastatin contains ezetimibe and simvastatin, two lipid-lowering compounds with complementary mechanisms of action. Ezetimibe and simvastatin reduces elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG, and non-HDL-C, and increases HDL-C through dual inhibition of cholesterol absorption and synthesis. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe reduces blood cholesterol by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol by the small intestine. The molecular target of ezetimibe has been shown to be the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. In a 2-week clinical study in 18 hypercholesterolemic patients, ezetimibe inhibited intestinal cholesterol absorption by 54%, compared with placebo. Ezetimibe had no clinically meaningful effect on the plasma concentrations of the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, and E and did not impair adrenocortical steroid hormone production. Ezetimibe localizes at the brush border of the small intestine and inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. This causes a reduction of hepatic cholesterol stores and an increase in clearance of cholesterol from the blood; this distinct mechanism is complementary to that of statins [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Simvastatin Simvastatin is a prodrug and is hydrolyzed to its active β-hydroxyacid form, simvastatin acid, after administration. Simvastatin is a specific inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, an early and rate limiting step in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol. In addition, simvastatin reduces very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and TG and increases HDL-C. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical studies have demonstrated that elevated levels of total-C, LDL-C and Apo B, the major protein constituent of LDL, promote human atherosclerosis. In addition, decreased levels of HDL-C are associated with the development of atherosclerosis. Epidemiologic studies have established that cardiovascular morbidity and mortality vary directly with the level of total-C and LDL-C and inversely with the level of HDL-C. Like LDL, cholesterol-enriched triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, including VLDL, intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDL), and remnants, can also promote atherosclerosis. The independent effect of raising HDL-C or lowering TG on the risk of coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The results of a bioequivalence study in healthy subjects demonstrated that the ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/10 mg to 10 mg/80 mg combination tablets are bioequivalent to coadministration of corresponding doses of ezetimibe (ZETIA ® ) and simvastatin (ZOCOR ® ) as individual tablets. Absorption Ezetimibe After oral administration, ezetimibe is absorbed and extensively conjugated to a pharmacologically active phenolic glucuronide (ezetimibe-glucuronide). Simvastatin The availability of the β-hydroxyacid to the systemic circulation following an oral dose of simvastatin was found to be less than 5% of the dose, consistent with extensive hepatic first-pass extraction. Effect of Food on Oral Absorption Ezetimibe Concomitant food administration (high-fat or non-fat meals) had no effect on the extent of absorption of ezetimibe when administered as 10-mg tablets. The C max value of ezetimibe was increased by 38% with consumption of high-fat meals. Simvastatin Relative to the fasting state, the plasma profiles of both active and total inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase were not affected when simvastatin was administered immediately before an American Heart Association recommended low-fat meal. Distribution Ezetimibe Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are highly bound (greater than 90%) to human plasma proteins. Simvastatin Both simvastatin and its β-hydroxyacid metabolite are highly bound (approximately 95%) to human plasma proteins. When radiolabeled simvastatin was administered to rats, simvastatin-derived radioactivity crossed the blood-brain barrier. Metabolism and Excretion Ezetimibe Ezetimibe is primarily metabolized in the small intestine and liver via glucuronide conjugation with subsequent biliary and renal excretion. Minimal oxidative metabolism has been observed in all species evaluated. In humans, ezetimibe is rapidly metabolized to ezetimibe-glucuronide. Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are the major drug-derived compounds detected in plasma, constituting approximately 10 to 20% and 80 to 90% of the total drug in plasma, respectively. Both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are eliminated from plasma with a half-life of approximately 22 hours for both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide. Plasma concentration-time profiles exhibit multiple peaks, suggesting enterohepatic recycling. Following oral administration of 14 C-ezetimibe (20 mg) to human subjects, total ezetimibe (ezetimibe + ezetimibe-glucuronide) accounted for approximately 93% of the total radioactivity in plasma. After 48 hours, there were no detectable levels of radioactivity in the plasma. Approximately 78% and 11% of the administered radioactivity were recovered in the feces and urine, respectively, over a 10-day collection period. Ezetimibe was the major component in feces and accounted for 69% of the administered dose, while ezetimibe-glucuronide was the major component in urine and accounted for 9% of the administered dose. Simvastatin Simvastatin is a lactone that is readily hydrolyzed in vivo to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid, a potent inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase is a basis for an assay in pharmacokinetic studies of the β-hydroxyacid metabolites (active inhibitors) and, following base hydrolysis, active plus latent inhibitors (total inhibitors) in plasma following administration of simvastatin. The major active metabolites of simvastatin present in human plasma are the β-hydroxyacid of simvastatin and its 6’-hydroxy, 6’-hydroxymethyl, and 6’-exomethylene derivatives. Following an oral dose of 14 C-labeled simvastatin in man, 13% of the dose was excreted in urine and 60% in feces. Plasma concentrations of total radioactivity (simvastatin plus 14 C-metabolites) peaked at 4 hours and declined rapidly to about 10% of peak by 12 hours postdose. Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Ezetimibe In a multiple-dose study with ezetimibe given 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe were about 2-fold higher in older (greater than or equal to 65 years) healthy subjects compared to younger subjects. Simvastatin In a study including 16 elderly patients between 70 and 78 years of age who received simvastatin 40 mg/day, the mean plasma level of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity was increased approximately 45% compared with 18 patients between 18 to 30 years of age. Pediatric Patients: [See Pediatric Use (8.4) ]. Gender Ezetimibe In a multiple-dose study with ezetimibe given 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe were slightly higher (less than 20%) in women than in men. Race Ezetimibe Based on a meta-analysis of multiple-dose pharmacokinetic studies, there were no pharmacokinetic differences between Black and Caucasian subjects. Studies in Asian subjects indicated that the pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe was similar to those seen in Caucasian subjects. Hepatic Impairment Ezetimibe After a single 10-mg dose of ezetimibe, the mean exposure (based on area under the curve [AUC]) to total ezetimibe was increased approximately 1.7-fold in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6), compared to healthy subjects. The mean AUC values for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 3- to 4-fold and 5- to 6-fold, respectively, in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10 to 15). In a 14-day, multiple-dose study (10 mg daily) in patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the mean AUC for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 4-fold compared to healthy subjects. Renal Impairment Ezetimibe After a single 10-mg dose of ezetimibe in patients with severe renal disease (n=8; mean CrCl less than or equal to 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), the mean AUC for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased approximately 1.5-fold, compared to healthy subjects (n=9). Simvastatin Pharmacokinetic studies with another statin having a similar principal route of elimination to that of simvastatin have suggested that for a given dose level higher systemic exposure may be achieved in patients with severe renal impairment (as measured by creatinine clearance). Drug Interactions [See also Drug Interactions (7) ] No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction was seen when ezetimibe was coadministered with simvastatin. No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with ezetimibe and simvastatin have been conducted other than the following study with NIASPAN (Niacin extended-release tablets). Niacin: The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin (10 mg/20 mg daily for 7 days) on the pharmacokinetics of NIASPAN extended-release tablets (1000 mg for 2 days and 2000 mg for 5 days following a low-fat breakfast) was studied in healthy subjects. The mean C max and AUC of niacin increased 9% and 22%, respectively. The mean C max and AUC of nicotinuric acid increased 10% and 19%, respectively (N=13). In the same study, the effect of NIASPAN on the pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe and simvastatin was evaluated (N=15). While concomitant NIASPAN decreased the mean C max of total ezetimibe (1%), and simvastatin (2%), it increased the mean C max of simvastatin acid (18%). In addition, concomitant NIASPAN increased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe (26%), simvastatin (20%), and simvastatin acid (35%). Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Cytochrome P450: Ezetimibe had no significant effect on a series of probe drugs (caffeine, dextromethorphan, tolbutamide, and IV midazolam) known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 (1A2, 2D6, 2C8/9 and 3A4) in a “cocktail” study of twelve healthy adult males. This indicates that ezetimibe is neither an inhibitor nor an inducer of these cytochrome P450 isozymes, and it is unlikely that ezetimibe will affect the metabolism of drugs that are metabolized by these enzymes. In a study of 12 healthy volunteers, simvastatin at the 80-mg dose had no effect on the metabolism of the probe cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4 (CYP3A4) substrates midazolam and erythromycin. This indicates that simvastatin is not an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and, therefore, is not expected to affect the plasma levels of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. Simvastatin acid is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Concomitant administration of medicinal products that are inhibitors of the transport protein OATP1B1 may lead to increased plasma concentrations of simvastatin acid and an increased risk of myopathy. For example, cyclosporine has been shown to increase the AUC of statins; although the mechanism is not fully understood, the increase in AUC for simvastatin acid is presumably due, in part, to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or OATP1B1. Simvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 can raise the plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity and increase the risk of myopathy [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ; Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Ezetimibe Table 4: Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Total Ezetimibe Coadministered Drug and Dosing Regimen Total Ezetimibe * Change in AUC Change in C max Cyclosporine-stable dose required (75 to 150 mg BID) †, ‡ ↑240% ↑290% Fenofibrate, 200 mg QD, 14 days ‡ ↑48% ↑64% Gemfibrozil, 600 mg BID, 7 days ‡ ↑64% ↑91% Cholestyramine, 4 g BID, 14 days ‡ ↓55% ↓ 4% Aluminum & magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, single dose § ↓ 4% ↓ 30% Cimetidine, 400 mg BID, 7 days ↑6% ↑22% Glipizide, 10 mg, single dose ↑4% ↓8% Statins Lovastatin 20 mg QD, 7 days ↑9% ↑ 3% Pravastatin 20 mg QD, 14 days ↑7% ↑23% Atorvastatin 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓2% ↑12% Rosuvastatin 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑13% ↑18% Fluvastatin 20 mg QD, 14 days ↓19% ↑7% * Based on 10 mg-dose of ezetimibe. † Post-renal transplant patients with mild impaired or normal renal function. In a different study, a renal transplant patient with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance of 13.2 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) who was receiving multiple medications, including cyclosporine, demonstrated a 12-fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe compared to healthy subjects. ‡ See 7. Drug Interactions. § Supralox, 20 mL. Table 5: Effect of Ezetimibe Coadministration on Systemic Exposure to Other Drugs Coadministered Drug and its Ezetimibe Dosage Change in AUC Change in C max Dosage Regimen Regimen of Coadministered Drug of Coadministered Drug Warfarin, 25 mg single dose on 10 mg QD, 11 days ↓2% (R-warfarin) ↑3% (R-warfarin) Day 7 ↓4% (S-warfarin) ↑1% (S-warfarin) Digoxin, 0.5 mg single dose 10 mg QD, 8 days ↑2% ↓7% Gemfibrozil, 600 mg BID, 10 mg QD, 7 days ↓1% ↓11% 7 days* Ethinyl estradiol & 10 mg QD, Days 8-14 of Ethinyl estradiol Ethinyl estradiol Levonorgestrel, QD, 21 days 21 day oral contraceptive 0% ↓9% cycle Levonorgestrel Levonorgestrel 0% ↓ 5% Glipizide, 10 mg on Days 1 10 mg QD, Days 2-9 ↓3% ↓5% and 9 Fenofibrate, 200 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑11% ↑7% 14 days * Cyclosporine, 100 mg single 20 mg QD, 8 days ↑15% ↑10% dose Day 7* Statins Lovastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 7 days ↑19% ↑3% 7 days Pravastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓20% ↓24% 14 days Atorvastatin 10 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓4% ↑ 7% 14 days Rosuvastatin 10 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↑19% ↑17% 14 days Fluvastatin 20 mg QD, 10 mg QD, 14 days ↓39% ↓27% 14 days * See 7. Drug Interactions . Simvastatin Table 6: Effect of Coadministered Drugs or Grapefruit Juice on Simvastatin Systemic Exposure Coadministered Drug or Grapefruit Juice Dosing of Coadministered Drug or Grapefruit Juice Dosing of Simvastatin Geometric Mean Ratio (Ratio * with / without coadministered drug) No Effect = 1.00 AUC C max Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Telithromycin † 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 12 8.9 15 5.3 Nelfinavir † 1250 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg QD for 28 days simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 6 6.2 Itraconazole † 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 13.1 13.1 Posaconazole 100 mg (oral suspension) QD for 13 days 200 mg (oral suspension) QD for 13 days 40 mg 40 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 7.3 10.3 8.5 10.6 9.2 9.4 9.5 11.4 Gemfibrozil 600 mg BID for 3 days 40 mg simvastatin acid ‡ simvastatin 2.85 1.35 2.18 0.91 Avoid grapefruit juice with ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Grapefruit Juice § (high dose) 200 mL of double-strength TID ¶ 60 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 7 16 Grapefruit Juice § (low dose) 8 oz (about 237 mL) of single-strength # 20 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.3 1.9 Avoid taking with > 10 mg/ 10 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin , based on clinical and/or postmarketing simvastatin experience [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Verapamil SR 240 mg QD Days 1-7 then 240 mg BID on Days 8-10 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.3 2.5 2.4 2.1 Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.69 3.10 2.69 2.88 Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg on Day 14 simvastatin 4.6 3.6 Dronedarone 400 mg BID for 14 days 40 mg QD for 14 days simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.96 3.90 2.14 3.75 Avoid taking with > 10 mg/ 20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin , based on clinical and/or postmarketing simvastatin experience [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Amiodarone 400 mg QD for 3 days 40 mg on Day 3 simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.75 1.76 1.72 1.79 Amlodipine 10 mg QD for 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.58 1.77 1.56 1.47 Ranolazine SR 1000 mg BID for 7 days 80 mg on Day 1 and Days 6-9 simvastatin acid simvastatin 2.26 1.86 2.28 1.75 Avoid taking with > 10 mg/ 20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin (or 10 mg/ 40 mg for patients who have previously taken 80 mg simvastatin chronically, e.g., for 12 months or more, without evidence of muscle toxicity), based on clinical experience Lomitapide 60 mg QD for 7 days 40 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.7 2 1.6 2 Lomitapide 10 mg QD for 7 days 20 mg single dose simvastatin acid simvastatin 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.7 No dosing adjustments required for the following: Fenofibrate 160 mg QD for 14 days 80 mg QD on Days 8-14 simvastatin acid simvastatin 0.64 0.89 0.89 0.83 Propranolol 80 mg single dose 80 mg single dose total inhibitor active inhibitor 0.79 0.79 ↓ from 33.6 to 21.1 ng·eq/mL ↓from 7.0 to 4.7 ng·eq/mL * Results based on a chemical assay except results with propranolol as indicated. † Results could be representative of the following CYP3A4 inhibitors: ketoconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, and nefazodone. ‡ Simvastatin acid refers to the β-hydroxyacid of simvastatin. § The effect of amounts of grapefruit juice between those used in these two studies on simvastatin pharmacokinetics has not been studied. ¶ Double-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with one can of water. Grapefruit juice was administered TID for 2 days, and 200 mL together with single dose simvastatin and 30 and 90 minutes following single dose simvastatin on Day 3. # Single-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with 3 cans of water. Grapefruit juice was administered with breakfast for 3 days, and simvastatin was administered in the evening on Day 3.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Plasma cholesterol is derived from intestinal absorption and endogenous synthesis. Ezetimibe and simvastatin contains ezetimibe and simvastatin, two lipid-lowering compounds with complementary mechanisms of action. Ezetimibe and simvastatin reduces elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG, and non-HDL-C, and increases HDL-C through dual inhibition of cholesterol absorption and synthesis. Ezetimibe Ezetimibe reduces blood cholesterol by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol by the small intestine. The molecular target of ezetimibe has been shown to be the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. In a 2-week clinical study in 18 hypercholesterolemic patients, ezetimibe inhibited intestinal cholesterol absorption by 54%, compared with placebo. Ezetimibe had no clinically meaningful effect on the plasma concentrations of the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, and E and did not impair adrenocortical steroid hormone production. Ezetimibe localizes at the brush border of the small intestine and inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. This causes a reduction of hepatic cholesterol stores and an increase in clearance of cholesterol from the blood; this distinct mechanism is complementary to that of statins [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Simvastatin Simvastatin is a prodrug and is hydrolyzed to its active β-hydroxyacid form, simvastatin acid, after administration. Simvastatin is a specific inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, an early and rate limiting step in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol. In addition, simvastatin reduces very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and TG and increases HDL-C.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, which contain a cholesterol absorption inhibitor and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin), is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to: reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG, and non-HDL-C, and to increase HDL-C in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. ( 1.1 ) reduce elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1.1 Primary Hyperlipidemia Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), triglycerides (TG), and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. 1.2 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable. 1.3 Limitations of Use No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal development. Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), such as simvastatin, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ezetimibe and simvastatin may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ezetimibe and simvastatin use during pregnancy; however, in rare reports congenital anomalies were observed following intrauterine exposure to statins. In rat and rabbit animal reproduction studies, simvastatin revealed no evidence of teratogenicity. Ezetimibe and simvastatin should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, ezetimibe and simvastatin should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Nursing mothers. It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted into human milk; however, a small amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require ezetimibe and simvastatin treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] . Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 4 , 5.1 ) Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol. ( 4 , 5.1 ) Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication ( 4 , 6.2 ) Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 , 5.2 ) Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing mothers ( 4 , 8.3 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg or 10 mg/20 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, use of the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. ( 2.2 ) Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. ( 2.2 ) Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80-mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. ( 2.2 ) Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin should occur either greater than or equal to 2 hours before or greater than or equal to 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The usual dosage range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. The recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg/day or 10 mg/20 mg/day. Ezetimibe and simvastatin should be taken as a single daily dose in the evening, with or without food. Patients who require a larger reduction in LDL-C (greater than 55%) may be started at 10 mg/40 mg/day in the absence of moderate to severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). After initiation or titration of ezetimibe and simvastatin, lipid levels may be analyzed after 2 or more weeks and dosage adjusted, if needed. 2.2 Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/ 80 mg Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly during the first year of treatment, use of the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40-mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80-mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. 2.3 Coadministration with Other Drugs Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should not exceed 10 mg/10 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine or Ranolazine The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients taking Bile Acid Sequestrants Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin should occur either greater than or equal to 2 hours before or greater than or equal to 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7.5) ] . 2.4 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosage for patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/40 mg/day in the evening [see Dosage and Administration, Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/80 mg (2.2) ] . Ezetimibe and simvastatin should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide; therefore, the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be reduced by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets dosage should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day (or 10 mg/40 mg/day for patients who have previously taken simvastatin 80 mg/day chronically, e.g., for 12 months or more, without evidence of muscle toxicity) while taking lomitapide. 2.5 Patients with Renal Impairment/Chronic Kidney Disease In patients with mild renal impairment (estimated GFR greater than or equal to 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), no dosage adjustment is necessary. In patients with chronic kidney disease and estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin is 10 mg/20 mg/day in the evening. In such patients, higher doses should be used with caution and close monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ; Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.6 Geriatric Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.7 Chinese Patients Taking Lipid-Modifying Doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day Niacin) of Niacin-Containing Products Because of an increased risk for myopathy in Chinese patients taking simvastatin 40 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products, caution should be used when treating Chinese patients with ezetimibe and simvastatin doses exceeding 10 mg/20 mg/day coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin­-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, Chinese patients should not receive ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. The cause of the increased risk of myopathy is not known. It is also unknown if the risk for myopathy with coadministration of simvastatin with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products observed in Chinese patients applies to other Asian patients [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: Rhabdomyolysis and myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Liver enzyme abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Common (incidence greater than or equal to 2% and greater than placebo) adverse reactions in clinical trials: headache, increased ALT, myalgia, upper respiratory tract infection, and diarrhea. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the ezetimibe and simvastatin placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1420 patients (age range 20 to 83 years, 52% women, 87% Caucasians, 3% Blacks, 5% Hispanics, 3% Asians) with a median treatment duration of 27 weeks, 5% of patients on ezetimibe and simvastatin and 2.2% of patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse reactions. The most common adverse reactions in the group treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were: Increased ALT (0.9%) Myalgia (0.6%) Increased AST (0.4%) Back pain (0.4%) The most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 2% and greater than placebo) in controlled clinical trials were: headache (5.8%), increased ALT (3.7%), myalgia (3.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (3.6%), and diarrhea (2.8%). Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have been evaluated for safety in more than 10,189 patients in clinical trials. Table 2 summarizes the frequency of clinical adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin (n=1420) and at an incidence greater than placebo, regardless of causality assessment, from four placebo-controlled trials. Table 2 * : Clinical Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥2% of Patients Treated with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin and at an Incidence Greater than Placebo, Regardless of Causality Ezetimibe Body System/Organ Class Placebo 10 mg Simvastatin † Ezetimibe and Simvastatin † Adverse Reaction (%) (%) (%) (%) n=371 n=302 n=1234 n=1420 Body as a whole – general disorders Headache 5.4 6.0 5.9 5.8 Gastrointestinal system disorders Diarrhea 2.2 5.0 3.7 2.8 Infections and infestations Influenza 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.3 Upper respiratory tract infection 2.7 5.0 5.0 3.6 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia 2.4 2.3 2.6 3.6 Pain in extremity 1.3 3.0 2.0 2.3 * Includes two placebo-controlled combination studies in which the active ingredients equivalent to ezetimibe and simvastatin were coadministered and two placebo-controlled studies in which ezetimibe and simvastatin was administered. † All doses. Study of Heart and Renal Protection In SHARP, 9270 patients were allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily (n=4650) or placebo (n=4620) for a median follow-up period of 4.9 years. The proportion of patients who permanently discontinued study treatment as a result of either an adverse event or abnormal safety blood result was 10.4% vs. 9.8% among patients allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Comparing those allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin vs. placebo, the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum CK greater than 10 times ULN) was 0.2% vs. 0.1% and the incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) was 0.09% vs. 0.02%, respectively. Consecutive elevations of transaminases (greater than 3 X ULN) occurred in 0.7% vs. 0.6%, respectively. Patients were asked about the occurrence of unexplained muscle pain or weakness at each study visit: 21.5% vs. 20.9% patients ever reported muscle symptoms in the ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo groups, respectively. Cancer was diagnosed during the trial in 9.4% vs. 9.5% of patients assigned to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Ezetimibe Other adverse reactions reported with ezetimibe in placebo-controlled studies, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal system disorders: arthralgia; Infections and infe stations: sinusitis; Body as a whole – general disorders: fatigue. Simvastatin In a clinical trial in which 12,064 patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with simvastatin (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] greater than 10 times upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients on 80 mg/day was approximately 0.9% compared with 0.02% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) in patients on 80 mg/day was approximately 0.4% compared with 0% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products were excluded. Other adverse reactions reported with simvastatin in placebo-controlled clinical studies, regardless of causality assessment: Cardiac disorders: atrial fibrillation; Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo; Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis; Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: eczema, rash; Endocrine disorders: diabetes mellitus; Infections and infestations: bronchitis, sinusitis, urinary tract infections; Body as a whole – general disorders: asthenia, edema/swelling; Psychiatric disorders: insomnia. Laboratory Tests Marked persistent increases of hepatic serum transaminases have been noted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Elevated alkaline phosphatase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase have been reported. About 5% of patients taking simvastatin had elevations of CK levels of 3 or more times the normal value on one or more occasions. This was attributable to the noncardiac fraction of CK [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because the below reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience for ezetimibe and simvastatin or ezetimibe or simvastatin: pruritus; alopecia; erythema multiforme; a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of skin/mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails); dizziness; muscle cramps; myalgia; arthralgia; pancreatitis; paresthesia; peripheral neuropathy; vomiting; nausea; anemia; erectile dysfunction; interstitial lung disease; myopathy/rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] ; hepatitis/jaundice; fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure; depression; cholelithiasis; cholecystitis; thrombocytopenia; elevations in liver transaminases; elevated creatine phosphokinase. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria have been reported. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity syndrome has been reported rarely that has included one or more of the following features: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematous-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, eosinophilia, arthritis, arthralgia, urticaria, asthenia, photosensitivity, fever, chills, flushing, malaise, dyspnea, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, including Stevens- Johnson syndrome. There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks).

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Drug Interactions Associated with Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.8 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone, cobicistat­-containing products), gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, danazol Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin Verapamil, diltiazem, dronedarone Do not exceed 10 mg/10 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin daily Amiodarone, amlodipine, ranolazine Do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin daily Lomitapide For patients with HoFH, do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin daily* Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice * For patients with HoFH who have been taking 80 mg simvastatin chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity, do not exceed 10 mg/40 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin when taking lomitapide. Coumarin anticoagulants: simvastatin prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting ezetimibe and simvastatin. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of ezetimibe and simvastatin therapy. ( 7.8 ) Cholestyramine: Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) Other Lipid-lowering Medications: Use with fenofibrates or lipid- modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin. ( 5.1 , 7.2 , 7.4 ) Fenofibrates: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7.2 , 7.7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, Cyclosporine, or Danazol Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: The risk of myopathy is increased by reducing the elimination of the simvastatin component of ezetimibe and simvastatin. Hence when ezetimibe and simvastatin is used with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (e.g., as listed below), elevated plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher doses of ezetimibe and simvastatin [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant use of drugs labeled as having a strong inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with ezetimibe and simvastatin must be suspended during the course of treatment. Cyclosporine or Danazol: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of cyclosporine or danazol. Therefore, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone Gemfibrozil: Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid): Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 7.3 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is increased by concomitant administration of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, diltiazem or amlodipine [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Table 6 in Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Niacin Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. The benefits of the combined use of ezetimibe and simvastatin with niacin should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. In particular, caution should be used when treating Chinese patients with ezetimibe and simvastatin doses exceeding 10 mg/20 mg/day coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, Chinese patients should not receive ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.5 Cholestyramine Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe and simvastatin to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction. 7.6 Digoxin In one study, concomitant administration of digoxin with simvastatin resulted in a slight elevation in plasma digoxin concentrations. Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately when ezetimibe and simvastatin is initiated. 7.7 Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe and simvastatin administered with fibrates have not been established. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of fenofibrates, ezetimibe and simvastatin should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with a fenofibrate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Fenofibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile [see Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology (13.2) ] . If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [see the product labeling for fenofibrate and fenofibric acid ] . 7.8 Coumarin Anticoagulants Simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day modestly potentiated the effect of coumarin anticoagulants: the prothrombin time, reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR), increased from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 and from 2.6 to 3.4 in a normal volunteer study and in a hypercholesterolemic patient study, respectively. With other statins, clinically evident bleeding and/or increased prothrombin time has been reported in a few patients taking coumarin anticoagulants concomitantly. In such patients, prothrombin time should be determined before starting ezetimibe and simvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on coumarin anticoagulants. If the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin is changed or discontinued, the same procedure should be repeated. Simvastatin therapy has not been associated with bleeding or with changes in prothrombin time in patients not taking anticoagulants. Concomitant administration of ezetimibe (10 mg once daily) had no significant effect on bioavailability of warfarin and prothrombin time in a study of twelve healthy adult males. There have been postmarketing reports of increased INR in patients who had ezetimibe added to warfarin. Most of these patients were also on other medications. The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin on the prothrombin time has not been studied. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing ezetimibe and simvastatin with colchicine.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X. [See Contraindications (4) .] Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Ezetimibe and simvastatin is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant. Lipid-lowering drugs offer no benefit during pregnancy, because cholesterol and cholesterol derivatives are needed for normal fetal development. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process, and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on long-term outcomes of primary hypercholesterolemia therapy. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ezetimibe and simvastatin use during pregnancy; however, there are rare reports of congenital anomalies in infants exposed to statins in utero . Animal reproduction studies of simvastatin in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of teratogenicity. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal development. Because statins, such as simvastatin, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ezetimibe and simvastatin may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. If ezetimibe and simvastatin is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Women of childbearing potential, who require ezetimibe and simvastatin treatment for a lipid disorder, should be advised to use effective contraception. For women trying to conceive, discontinuation of ezetimibe and simvastatin should be considered. If pregnancy occurs, ezetimibe and simvastatin should be immediately discontinued. Ezetimibe In oral (gavage) embryo-fetal development studies of ezetimibe conducted in rats and rabbits during organogenesis, there was no evidence of embryolethal effects at the doses tested (250, 500, 1000 mg/kg/day). In rats, increased incidences of common fetal skeletal findings (extra pair of thoracic ribs, unossified cervical vertebral centra, shortened ribs) were observed at 1000 mg/kg/day (~10 times the human exposure at 10 mg daily based on AUC 0-24hr for total ezetimibe). In rabbits treated with ezetimibe, an increased incidence of extra thoracic ribs was observed at 1000 mg/kg/day (150 times the human exposure at 10 mg daily based on AUC 0-24hr for total ezetimibe). Ezetimibe crossed the placenta when pregnant rats and rabbits were given multiple oral doses. Multiple-dose studies of ezetimibe coadministered with statins in rats and rabbits during organogenesis result in higher ezetimibe and statin exposures. Reproductive findings occur at lower doses in coadministration therapy compared to monotherapy. Simvastatin Simvastatin was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses (25, 10 mg/kg/day, respectively) that resulted in 3 times the human exposure based on mg/m 2 surface area. However, in studies with another structurally-related statin, skeletal malformations were observed in rats and mice. There are rare reports of congenital anomalies following intrauterine exposure to statins. In a review 1 of approximately 100 prospectively followed pregnancies in women exposed to simvastatin or another structurally-related statin, the incidences of congenital anomalies, spontaneous abortions and fetal deaths/stillbirths did not exceed what would be expected in the general population. The number of cases is adequate only to exclude a 3- to 4-fold increase in congenital anomalies over the background incidence. In 89% of the prospectively followed pregnancies, drug treatment was initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued at some point in the first trimester when pregnancy was identified.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted in human milk. Because a small amount of another drug in this class is excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women taking simvastatin should not nurse their infants. A decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother [see Contraindications (4) ] . In rat studies, exposure to ezetimibe in nursing pups was up to half of that observed in maternal plasma. It is not known whether ezetimibe or simvastatin are excreted into human breast milk. Because a small amount of another drug in the same class as simvastatin is excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who are nursing should not take ezetimibe and simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) ] .

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The effects of ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin (n=126) compared to simvastatin monotherapy (n=122) have been evaluated in adolescent boys and girls with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). In a multicenter, double-blind, controlled study followed by an open-label phase, 142 boys and 106 postmenarchal girls, 10 to 17 years of age (mean age 14.2 years, 43% females, 82% Caucasians, 4% Asian, 2% Blacks, 13% multiracial) with HeFH were randomized to receive either ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin or simvastatin monotherapy. Inclusion in the study required 1) a baseline LDL-C level between 160 and 400 mg/dL and 2) a medical history and clinical presentation consistent with HeFH. The mean baseline LDL-C value was 225 mg/dL (range: 161 to 351 mg/dL) in the ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin group compared to 219 mg/dL (range: 149 to 336 mg/dL) in the simvastatin monotherapy group. The patients received coadministered ezetimibe and simvastatin (10 mg, 20 mg, or 40 mg) or simvastatin monotherapy (10 mg, 20 mg, or 40 mg) for 6 weeks, coadministered ezetimibe and 40 mg simvastatin or 40 mg simvastatin monotherapy for the next 27 weeks, and open-label coadministered ezetimibe and simvastatin (10 mg, 20 mg, or 40 mg) for 20 weeks thereafter. The results of the study at Week 6 are summarized in Table 3. Results at Week 33 were consistent with those at Week 6. ____________________________ 1 Manson, J.M., Freyssinges, C., Ducrocq, M.B., Stephenson, W.P., Postmarketing Surveillance of Lovastatin and Simvastatin Exposure During Pregnancy, Reproductive Toxicology, 10(6):439-446, 1996. Table 3: Mean Percent Difference at Week 6 Between the Pooled Ezetimibe Coadministered with Simvastatin Group and the Pooled Simvastatin Monotherapy Group in Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Total-C LDL-C Apo B Non-HDL-C TG* HDL-C Mean percent difference between treatment groups -12% -15% -12% -14% -2% +0.1% 95% Confidence Interval (-15%, -9%) (-18%, -12%) (-15%, -9%) (-17%, -11%) (-9, +4) (-3, +3) * For triglycerides, median % change from baseline. From the start of the trial to the end of Week 33, discontinuations due to an adverse reaction occurred in 7 (6%) patients in the ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin group and in 2 (2%) patients in the simvastatin monotherapy group. During the trial, hepatic transaminase elevations (two consecutive measurements for ALT and/or AST greater than or equal to 3 X ULN) occurred in four (3%) individuals in the ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin group and in two (2%) individuals in the simvastatin monotherapy group. Elevations of CPK (greater than or equal to 10 X ULN) occurred in two (2%) individuals in the ezetimibe coadministered with simvastatin group and in zero individuals in the simvastatin monotherapy group. In this limited controlled study, there was no significant effect on growth or sexual maturation in the adolescent boys or girls, or on menstrual cycle length in girls. Coadministration of ezetimibe with simvastatin at doses greater than 40 mg/day has not been studied in adolescents. Also, ezetimibe and simvastatin has not been studied in patients younger than 10 years of age or in pre-menarchal girls. Ezetimibe Based on total ezetimibe (ezetimibe + ezetimibe-glucuronide) there are no pharmacokinetic differences between adolescents and adults. Pharmacokinetic data in the pediatric population less than 10 years of age are not available. Simvastatin The pharmacokinetics of simvastatin has not been studied in the pediatric population.

GERIATRIC USE:
2.6 Geriatric Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Ezetimibe and S imvastatin No specific treatment of overdosage with ezetimibe and simvastatin can be recommended. In the event of an overdose, symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed. Ezetimibe In clinical studies, administration of ezetimibe, 50 mg/day to 15 healthy subjects for up to 14 days, or 40 mg/day to 18 patients with primary hyperlipidemia for up to 56 days, was generally well tolerated. A few cases of overdosage have been reported; most have not been associated with adverse experiences. Reported adverse experiences have not been serious. Simvastatin Significant lethality was observed in mice after a single oral dose of 9 g/m 2 . No evidence of lethality was observed in rats or dogs treated with doses of 30 and 100 g/m 2 , respectively. No specific diagnostic signs were observed in rodents. At these doses the only signs seen in dogs were emesis and mucoid stools. A few cases of overdosage with simvastatin have been reported; the maximum dose taken was 3.6 g. All patients recovered without sequelae. The dialyzability of simvastatin and its metabolites in man is not known at present.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Ezetimibe and S imvastatin Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the ezetimibe and simvastatin placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1420 patients (age range 20 to 83 years, 52% women, 87% Caucasians, 3% Blacks, 5% Hispanics, 3% Asians) with a median treatment duration of 27 weeks, 5% of patients on ezetimibe and simvastatin and 2.2% of patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse reactions. The most common adverse reactions in the group treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were: Increased ALT (0.9%) Myalgia (0.6%) Increased AST (0.4%) Back pain (0.4%) The most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 2% and greater than placebo) in controlled clinical trials were: headache (5.8%), increased ALT (3.7%), myalgia (3.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (3.6%), and diarrhea (2.8%). Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have been evaluated for safety in more than 10,189 patients in clinical trials. Table 2 summarizes the frequency of clinical adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients treated with ezetimibe and simvastatin (n=1420) and at an incidence greater than placebo, regardless of causality assessment, from four placebo-controlled trials. Table 2 * : Clinical Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥2% of Patients Treated with Ezetimibe and Simvastatin and at an Incidence Greater than Placebo, Regardless of Causality Ezetimibe Body System/Organ Class Placebo 10 mg Simvastatin † Ezetimibe and Simvastatin † Adverse Reaction (%) (%) (%) (%) n=371 n=302 n=1234 n=1420 Body as a whole – general disorders Headache 5.4 6.0 5.9 5.8 Gastrointestinal system disorders Diarrhea 2.2 5.0 3.7 2.8 Infections and infestations Influenza 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.3 Upper respiratory tract infection 2.7 5.0 5.0 3.6 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia 2.4 2.3 2.6 3.6 Pain in extremity 1.3 3.0 2.0 2.3 * Includes two placebo-controlled combination studies in which the active ingredients equivalent to ezetimibe and simvastatin were coadministered and two placebo-controlled studies in which ezetimibe and simvastatin was administered. † All doses. Study of Heart and Renal Protection In SHARP, 9270 patients were allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin 10 mg/20 mg daily (n=4650) or placebo (n=4620) for a median follow-up period of 4.9 years. The proportion of patients who permanently discontinued study treatment as a result of either an adverse event or abnormal safety blood result was 10.4% vs. 9.8% among patients allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Comparing those allocated to ezetimibe and simvastatin vs. placebo, the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum CK greater than 10 times ULN) was 0.2% vs. 0.1% and the incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) was 0.09% vs. 0.02%, respectively. Consecutive elevations of transaminases (greater than 3 X ULN) occurred in 0.7% vs. 0.6%, respectively. Patients were asked about the occurrence of unexplained muscle pain or weakness at each study visit: 21.5% vs. 20.9% patients ever reported muscle symptoms in the ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo groups, respectively. Cancer was diagnosed during the trial in 9.4% vs. 9.5% of patients assigned to ezetimibe and simvastatin and placebo, respectively. Ezetimibe Other adverse reactions reported with ezetimibe in placebo-controlled studies, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal system disorders: arthralgia; Infections and infe stations: sinusitis; Body as a whole – general disorders: fatigue. Simvastatin In a clinical trial in which 12,064 patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with simvastatin (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] greater than 10 times upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients on 80 mg/day was approximately 0.9% compared with 0.02% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK greater than 40 times ULN) in patients on 80 mg/day was approximately 0.4% compared with 0% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products were excluded. Other adverse reactions reported with simvastatin in placebo-controlled clinical studies, regardless of causality assessment: Cardiac disorders: atrial fibrillation; Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo; Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis; Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: eczema, rash; Endocrine disorders: diabetes mellitus; Infections and infestations: bronchitis, sinusitis, urinary tract infections; Body as a whole – general disorders: asthenia, edema/swelling; Psychiatric disorders: insomnia. Laboratory Tests Marked persistent increases of hepatic serum transaminases have been noted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Elevated alkaline phosphatase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase have been reported. About 5% of patients taking simvastatin had elevations of CK levels of 3 or more times the normal value on one or more occasions. This was attributable to the noncardiac fraction of CK [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .

SPL TEXT:
Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 513 Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Ezetimibe and Simvastatin EZETIMIBE EZETIMIBE SIMVASTATIN SIMVASTATIN ASCORBIC ACID BUTYLATED HYDROXYANISOLE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSE 2910 (5 MPA.S) FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PROPYL GALLATE light tan, slightly speckled 512