DRUG NAME: Duloxetine Delayed-Release
GENERIC NAME: DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE
MANUFACTURER: Golden State Medical Supply, Inc.
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, USP are a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) for oral administration. Its chemical designation is (+)-( S )- N -methyl-γ-(1-naphthyloxy)-2-thiophenepropylamine hydrochloride. The empirical formula is C 18 H 19 NOS∙HCl, which corresponds to a molecular weight of 333.88. The structural formula is: Duloxetine hydrochloride is a white to slightly brownish white solid, which is slightly soluble in water. Each capsule contains enteric-coated pellets of 20, 30, 40 or 60 mg of duloxetine (equivalent to 22.4, 33.7, 44.9 or 67.3 mg of duloxetine hydrochloride, respectively). These enteric-coated pellets are designed to prevent degradation of the drug in the acidic environment of the stomach. Inactive ingredients include ammonium hydroxide, black iron oxide, hypromellose, methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion (methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer, polysorbate 80, sodium lauryl sulfate), potassium hydroxide, propylene glycol, shellac, sucrose, sugar spheres (maize starch, sucrose), talc, titanium dioxide, triethylcitrate, and hard gelatin capsules (gelatin, titanium dioxide). The 20 mg hard gelatin capsule colorant is yellow iron oxide. The 30 mg hard gelatin capsule colorants are FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Yellow No. 6, and FD&C Yellow No. 10. The 40 mg hard gelatin capsule colorants are FD&C Blue No. 2, red iron oxide, and yellow iron oxide. The 60 mg hard gelatin capsule colorants are FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Yellow No. 6, FD&C Yellow No.10, and yellow iron oxide. Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Although the exact mechanisms of the antidepressant, central pain inhibitory and anxiolytic actions of duloxetine in humans are unknown, these actions are believed to be related to its potentiation of serotonergic and noradrenergic activity in the CNS. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Preclinical studies have shown that duloxetine is a potent inhibitor of neuronal serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake and a less potent inhibitor of dopamine reuptake. Duloxetine has no significant affinity for dopaminergic, adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic, opioid, glutamate, and GABA receptors in vitro . Duloxetine does not inhibit monoamine oxidase (MAO). Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are in a class of drugs known to affect urethral resistance [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ]. Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 160 mg and 200 mg administered twice daily (2.7 and 3.3 times the maximum recommended dosage, respectively) to steady state was evaluated in a randomized, double-blinded, two-way crossover study in 117 healthy female adult subjects. No QT interval prolongation was detected. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules appears to be associated with concentration-dependent but not clinically meaningful QT shortening. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Duloxetine has an elimination half-life of about 12 hours (range 8 to 17 hours) and its pharmacokinetics are dose proportional over the therapeutic range. Steady-state plasma concentrations are typically achieved after 3 days of dosing. Elimination of duloxetine is mainly through hepatic metabolism involving two P450 isozymes, CYP1A2 and CYP2D6. Absorption After oral Duloxetine delayed-release capsules administration, duloxetine hydrochloride is well absorbed. There is a median 2 hour lag until absorption begins (T lag ), with maximal plasma concentrations (C max ) of duloxetine occurring 6 hours post dose. There is a 3 hour delay in absorption and a one-third increase in apparent clearance of duloxetine after an evening dose as compared to a morning dose. Effect of Food: Food does not affect the C max of duloxetine, but delays the time to reach peak concentration from 6 to 10 hours and it marginally decreases the extent of absorption (AUC) by about 10%. Distribution The apparent volume of distribution averages about 1640 L. Duloxetine is highly bound (>90%) to proteins in human plasma, binding primarily to albumin and α 1 -acid glycoprotein. The interaction between duloxetine and other highly protein bound drugs has not been fully evaluated. Plasma protein binding of duloxetine is not affected by renal or hepatic impairment. Elimination Metabolism Biotransformation and disposition of duloxetine in humans have been determined following oral administration of 14 C-labeled duloxetine. Duloxetine comprises about 3% of the total radiolabeled material in the plasma, indicating that it undergoes extensive metabolism to numerous metabolites. The major biotransformation pathways for duloxetine involve oxidation of the naphthyl ring followed by conjugation and further oxidation. Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 catalyze the oxidation of the naphthyl ring in vitro . Metabolites found in plasma include 4-hydroxy duloxetine glucuronide and 5-hydroxy, 6-methoxy duloxetine sulfate. Excretion Many additional metabolites have been identified in urine, some representing only minor pathways of elimination. Only trace (<1% of the dose) amounts of unchanged duloxetine are present in the urine. Most (about 70%) of the duloxetine dose appears in the urine as metabolites of duloxetine; about 20% is excreted in the feces. Duloxetine undergoes extensive metabolism, but the major circulating metabolites have not been shown to contribute significantly to the pharmacologic activity of duloxetine. Specific Populations Pediatric Patients Duloxetine steady-state plasma concentration was comparable in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age and adult patients. The average steady-state duloxetine concentration was approximately 30% lower in this pediatric population relative to adult patients. The model-predicted duloxetine steady state plasma concentrations in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age were mostly within the concentration range observed in adult patients and did not exceed the concentration range in adults.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Although the exact mechanisms of the antidepressant, central pain inhibitory and anxiolytic actions of duloxetine in humans are unknown, these actions are believed to be related to its potentiation of serotonergic and noradrenergic activity in the CNS.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules or within 5 days of stopping treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid- or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies. These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in patients over age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients aged 65 and older [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy, monitor closely for worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Advise families and caregivers of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults taking antidepressants ( 5.1 ) Monitor for worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors ( 5.1 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take Duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Geriatric 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer Duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Do not chew or crush, and do not open the delayed-release capsule and sprinkle its contents on food or mix with liquids because these actions might affect the enteric coating. If a dose of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time. Do not take two doses of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same time. 2.2 Dosage for Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults with MDD is 40 mg/day (given as 20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (given either once daily or as 30 mg twice daily). For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg/day dose was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer any additional benefits. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. 2.3 Dosage for Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Recommended Dosage in Adults Less than 65 Years of Age For most adults less than 65 years of age with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg once daily dosage was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit. Nevertheless, if a decision is made to increase the dosage beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. Periodically reassess to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Thereafter, patients may benefit from doses above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dose in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age Initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosage range is 30 to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may benefit from dosages above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day. 2.4 Dosage for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Adults Administer 60 mg once daily in adults with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated. For patients for whom tolerability is a concern, a lower starting dose may be considered. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may respond to the starting dosage. There is no evidence that dosages greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg/day dosage, and higher dosages were associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage in pediatric patients 13-17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased to 60 mg once daily based on response and tolerability. 2.6 Dosage for Treatment of Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for one week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.8 Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules Adverse reactions after discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, after abrupt or tapered discontinuation, include: dizziness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, paresthesia, irritability, vomiting, insomnia, anxiety, hyperhidrosis, and fatigue. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ]. 2.10 Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving Duloxetine delayed-release capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors in Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Orthostatic Hypotension, Falls and Syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Serotonin Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Increased Risk of Bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Severe Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Discontinuation Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Activation of Mania/Hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Angle-Closure Glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Increases in Blood Pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Clinically Important Drug Interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Urinary Hesitation and Retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] Sexual Dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ] Most common adverse reactions (≥5% and at least twice the incidence of placebo-treated patients): ( 6.1 ) Adults : nausea, dry mouth, somnolence, constipation, decreased appetite, and hyperhidrosis Pediatric Patients : decreased weight, decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and diarrhea To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Breckenridge Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 1-800-367-3395 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The stated frequencies of adverse reactions represent the proportion of patients who experienced, at least once, one treatment-emergent adverse reaction of the type listed. A reaction was considered treatment-emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. Adverse Reactions in Adults Adult Clinical Trial Database The data described below reflect exposure to duloxetine in placebo-controlled adult trials for MDD (N=3779), GAD (N=1018), OA (N=503), CLBP (N=600), DPNP (N=906), and FM (N=1294). The age range in this pooled population was 17 to 89 years of age. In this pooled population, 66%, 61%, 61%, 43%, and 94% of adult patients were female; and 82%, 73%, 85%, 74%, and 86% of adult patients were Caucasian in the MDD, GAD, OA and CLBP, DPNP, and FM populations, respectively. Most patients received Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosages of a total of 60 to 120 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . The data below do not include results of the trial that evaluated the efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the treatment of GAD in patients ≥65 years old (Study GAD-5) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] ; however, the adverse reactions observed in this geriatric population were generally similar to adverse reactions in the overall adult population. Adverse Reactions Leading to Treatment Discontinuation in Adult Placebo-Controlled Trials Major Depressive Disorder Approximately 8.4% (319/3779) of duloxetine-treated patients in placebo-controlled adult trials for MDD discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 4.6% (117/2536) of placebo-treated patients. Nausea (Duloxetine 1.1%, placebo 0.4%) was the only adverse reaction reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (i.e., discontinuation occurring in at least 1% of the duloxetine-treated patients and at a rate of at least twice that of placebo-treated patients). Generalized Anxiety Disorder Approximately 13.7% (139/1018) of the duloxetine-treated patients in placebo-controlled adult trials for GAD discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 5% (38/767) for placebo-treated patients. Common adverse reactions reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (as defined above) included nausea (Duloxetine 3.3%, placebo 0.4%), and dizziness (Duloxetine 1.3%, placebo 0.4%). Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain Approximately 12.9% (117/906) of the duloxetine-treated patients in placebo-controlled adult trials for DPNP discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 5.1% (23/448) for placebo-treated patients. Common adverse reactions reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (as defined above) included nausea (Duloxetine 3.5%, placebo 0.7%), dizziness (Duloxetine 1.2%, placebo 0.4%), and somnolence (Duloxetine 1.1%, placebo 0%). Fibromyalgia Approximately 17.5% (227/1294) of the duloxetine-treated patients in 3- to 6-month placebo-controlled adult trials for FM discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 10.1% (96/955) for placebo-treated patients. Adverse reactions reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (as defined above) included nausea (Duloxetine 2.0%, placebo 0.5%), headache (Duloxetine 1.2%, placebo 0.3%), somnolence (Duloxetine 1.1%, placebo 0%), and fatigue (Duloxetine 1.1%, placebo 0.1%). Chronic Pain due to Osteoarthritis Approximately 15.7% (79/503) of the duloxetine-treated patients in 13-week, placebo-controlled adult trials for chronic pain due to OA discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 7.3% (37/508) for placebo-treated patients. Adverse reactions reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (as defined above) included nausea (Duloxetine 2.2%, placebo 1%). Chronic Low Back Pain Approximately 16.5% (99/600) of the duloxetine-treated patients in 13-week, placebo-controlled adult trials for CLBP discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared with 6.3% (28/441) for placebo-treated patients. Adverse reactions reported as a reason for discontinuation and considered to be drug-related (as defined above) included nausea (Duloxetine 3%, placebo 0.7%), and somnolence (Duloxetine 1%, placebo 0%). Most Common Adverse Reactions in Adult Trials The most commonly observed adverse reactions in Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients (as defined above) were: Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain: nausea, somnolence, decreased appetite, constipation, hyperhidrosis, and dry mouth. Fibromyalgia: nausea, dry mouth, constipation, somnolence, decreased appetite, hyperhidrosis, and agitation. Chronic Pain due to Osteoarthritis: nausea, fatigue, constipation, dry mouth, insomnia, somnolence, and dizziness. Chronic Low Back Pain: nausea, dry mouth, insomnia, somnolence, constipation, dizziness, and fatigue. The most commonly observed adverse reactions in Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients in all the pooled adult populations (i.e., MDD, GAD, DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP) (incidence of at least 5% and at least twice the incidence in placebo-treated patients) were nausea, dry mouth, somnolence, constipation, decreased appetite, and hyperhidrosis. Table 2 displays the incidence of adverse reactions in placebo-controlled trials for approved adult populations (i.e., MDD, GAD, DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP) that occurred in 5% or more of duloxetine-treated patients and with an incidence greater than placebo-treated patients. Table 2: Adverse Reactions: Incidence of 5% or More and Greater than Placebo in Placebo-Controlled Trials of Approved Adult Populations Includes adults with MDD, GAD, DPNP, FM, and chronic musculoskeletal pain. The inclusion of an event in the table is determined based on the percentages before rounding; however, the percentages displayed in the table are rounded to the nearest integer. Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=8100) Placebo (N=5655) Nausea Events for which there was a significant dose-dependent relationship in fixed-dose studies, excluding three MDD studies which did not have a placebo lead-in period or dose titration. 23 8 Headache 14 12 Dry mouth 13 5 Somnolence Also includes hypersomnia and sedation. 10 3 Fatigue Also includes asthenia. , 9 5 Insomnia Also includes initial insomnia, middle insomnia, and early morning awakening. 9 5 Constipation 9 4 Dizziness 9 5 Diarrhea 9 6 Decreased appetite 7 2 Hyperhidrosis 6 1 Abdominal pain Also includes abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain lower, abdominal pain upper, abdominal tenderness, and gastrointestinal pain. 5 4 Adverse Reactions in Pooled MDD and GAD Trials in Adults Table 3 displays the incidence of adverse reactions in MDD and GAD placebo-controlled adult trials that occurred in 2% or more of duloxetine-treated patients and with an incidence greater than placebo-treated patients. Table 3: Adverse Reactions: Incidence of 2% or More and Greater than Placebo in MDD and GAD Placebo-Controlled Trials in Adults The inclusion of an event in the table is determined based on the percentages before rounding; however, the percentages displayed in the table are rounded to the nearest integer. , For GAD, there were no adverse reactions that were significantly different between treatments in adults ≥65 years that were also not significant in the adults <65 years. System Organ Class / Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=4797) Placebo (N=3303) Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 2 1 Eye Disorders Vision blurred 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea Events for which there was a significant dose-dependent relationship in fixed-dose studies, excluding three MDD studies which did not have a placebo lead-in period or dose titration. 23 8 Dry mouth 14 6 Constipation 9 4 Diarrhea 9 6 Abdominal pain Includes abdominal pain upper, abdominal pain lower, abdominal tenderness, abdominal discomfort, and gastrointestinal pain. 5 4 Vomiting 4 2 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Includes asthenia. 9 5 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 6 2 Nervous System Disorders Headache 14 14 Dizziness 9 5 Somnolence Includes hypersomnia and sedation. 9 3 Tremor 3 1 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia Includes initial insomnia, middle insomnia, and early morning awakening. 9 5 Agitation Includes feeling jittery, nervousness, restlessness, tension and psychomotor hyperactivity. 4 2 Anxiety 3 2 Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Erectile dysfunction 4 1 Ejaculation delayed 2 1 Libido decreased Includes loss of libido. 3 1 Orgasm abnormal Includes anorgasmia. 2 <1 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Yawning 2 <1 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Hyperhidrosis 6 2 Adverse Reactions in the DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP Adult Trials Table 4 displays the incidence of adverse reactions that occurred in 2% or more of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients (determined prior to rounding) in the premarketing acute phase of DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP placebo-controlled adult trials and with an incidence greater than placebo-treated patients. Table 4: Adverse Reactions: Incidence of 2% or More and Greater than Placebo in DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP Placebo-Controlled Trials The inclusion of an event in the table is determined based on the percentages before rounding; however, the percentages displayed in the table are rounded to the nearest integer. System Organ Class / Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Reaction Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=3303) Placebo (N=2352) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 23 7 Dry Mouth Incidence of 120 mg/day is significantly greater than the incidence for 60 mg/day. 11 3 Constipation 10 3 Diarrhea 9 5 Abdominal Pain Includes abdominal discomfort, lower abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness and gastrointestinal pain. 5 4 Vomiting 3 2 Dyspepsia 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Includes asthenia. 11 5 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 4 4 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 3 Influenza 2 2 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased Appetite 8 1 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Musculoskeletal Pain Includes myalgia and neck pain. 3 3 Muscle Spasms 2 2 Nervous System Disorders Headache 13 8 Somnolence , Includes hypersomnia and sedation. 11 3 Dizziness 9 5 Paraesthesia Includes hypoaesthesia, facial hypoaesthesia, genital hypoaesthesia and oral paraesthesia. 2 2 Tremor 2 <1 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia , Includes initial insomnia, middle insomnia, and early morning awakening. 10 5 Agitation Includes feeling jittery, nervousness, restlessness, tension and psychomotor hyperactivity. 3 1 Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Erectile Dysfunction 4 <1 Ejaculation Disorder Includes ejaculation failure. 2 <1 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 2 2 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Hyperhidrosis 6 1 Vascular Disorders Flushing Includes hot flush. 3 1 Blood pressure increased Includes increased diastolic blood pressure, increased systolic blood pressure, diastolic hypertension, essential hypertension, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, labile hypertension, orthostatic hypertension, secondary hypertension, and systolic hypertension. 2 1 Effects on Male and Female Sexual Function in Adults with MDD Changes in sexual desire, sexual performance and sexual satisfaction often occur as manifestations of psychiatric disorders or diabetes, but they may also be a consequence of pharmacologic treatment. Because adverse sexual reactions are presumed to be voluntarily underreported, the Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX), a validated measure designed to identify sexual adverse reactions, was used prospectively in 4 MDD placebo-controlled adult trials (Studies MDD-1, MDD-2, MDD-3, and MDD-4) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. The ASEX scale includes five questions that pertain to the following aspects of sexual function: 1) sex drive, 2) ease of arousal, 3) ability to achieve erection (men) or lubrication (women), 4) ease of reaching orgasm, and 5) orgasm satisfaction. Positive numbers signify a worsening of sexual function from baseline. Negative numbers signify an improvement from a baseline level of dysfunction, which is commonly seen in depressed patients. In these trials, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated male patients experienced significantly more sexual dysfunction, as measured by the total score on the ASEX and the ability to reach orgasm, than placebo-treated male patients (see Table 5 ). Duloxetine delayed-release capsules- treated female patients did not experience more sexual dysfunction than placebo-treated female patients as measured by ASEX total score. Healthcare providers should routinely inquire about possible sexual adverse reactions in Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients. Table 5: Mean Change in ASEX Scores by Gender in MDD Placebo-Controlled Adult Trials Male Patients n=Number of patients with non-missing change score for ASEX total. Female Patients Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (n=175) Placebo (n=83) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (n=241) Placebo (n=126) ASEX Total (Items 1-5) 0.56 p=0.013 versus placebo. -1.07 -1.15 -1.07 Item 1- Sex drive -0.07 -0.12 -0.32 -0.24 Item 2 - Arousal 0.01 -0.26 -0.21 -0.18 Item 3 - Ability to achieve erection (men); Lubrication (women) 0.03 -0.25 -0.17 -0.18 Item 4 - Ease of reaching orgasm 0.40 p<0.001 versus placebo. -0.24 -0.09 -0.13 Item 5 - Orgasm satisfaction 0.09 -0.13 -0.11 -0.17 Vital Sign Changes in Adults In placebo-controlled clinical trials across approved adult populations for change from baseline to endpoint, duloxetine-treated patients had mean increases of 0.23 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 0.73 mm Hg in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) compared to mean decreases of 1.09 mm Hg in SBP and 0.55 mm Hg in DBP in placebo-treated patients. There was no significant difference in the frequency of sustained (3 consecutive visits) elevated blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.11) ]. Duloxetine treatment, for up to 26 weeks in placebo-controlled trials across approved adult populations, typically caused a small increase in heart rate for change from baseline to endpoint compared to placebo of up to 1.37 beats per minute (increase of 1.20 beats per minute in duloxetine-treated patients, decrease of 0.17 beats per minute in placebo-treated patients). Laboratory Changes in Adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules treatment in placebo-controlled clinical trials across approved adult populations, was associated with small mean increases from baseline to endpoint in ALT, AST, CPK, and alkaline phosphatase; infrequent, modest, transient, abnormal values were observed for these analytes in Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients when compared with placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. High bicarbonate, cholesterol, and abnormal (high or low) potassium, were observed more frequently in Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Trial Evaluation of Duloxetine in Adults Following is a list of adverse reactions reported by patients treated with duloxetine in clinical adult trials. In clinical trials of all approved adult populations, 34,756 patients were treated with duloxetine. Of these, 27% (9337) took duloxetine for at least 6 months, and 12% (4317) took duloxetine at least one year. The following listing is not intended to include reactions (1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, (2) for which a drug cause was remote, (3) which were so general as to be uninformative, (4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or (5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Reactions are categorized by body system according to the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients; rare reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Cardiac Disorders — Frequent: palpitations; Infrequent: myocardial infarction, tachycardia, and Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders — Frequent: vertigo; Infrequent: ear pain and tinnitus. Endocrine Disorders — Infrequent: hypothyroidism. Eye Disorders — Frequent: vision blurred; Infrequent: diplopia, dry eye, and visual impairment. Gastrointestinal Disorders — Frequent: flatulence; Infrequent: dysphagia, eructation, gastritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, halitosis, and stomatitis; Rare: gastric ulcer. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions — Frequent: chills/rigors; Infrequent: falls, feeling abnormal, feeling hot and/or cold, malaise, and thirst; Rare: gait disturbance. Infections and Infestations — Infrequent: gastroenteritis and laryngitis. Investigations — Frequent: weight increased, weight decreased; Infrequent: blood cholesterol increased. Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders — Infrequent: dehydration and hyperlipidemia; Rare: dyslipidemia. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders — Frequent: musculoskeletal pain; Infrequent: muscle tightness and muscle twitching. Nervous System Disorders — Frequent: dysgeusia, lethargy, and paraesthesia/hypoesthesia; Infrequent: disturbance in attention, dyskinesia, myoclonus, and poor quality sleep; Rare: dysarthria. Psychiatric Disorders — Frequent: abnormal dreams and sleep disorder; Infrequent: apathy, bruxism, disorientation/confusional state, irritability, mood swings, and suicide attempt; Rare: completed suicide. Renal and Urinary Disorders — Frequent: urinary frequency; Infrequent: dysuria, micturition urgency, nocturia, polyuria, and urine odor abnormal. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders — Frequent: anorgasmia/orgasm abnormal; Infrequent: menopausal symptoms, sexual dysfunction, and testicular pain; Rare: menstrual disorder. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders — Frequent: yawning, oropharyngeal pain; Infrequent: throat tightness. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders — Frequent: pruritus; Infrequent: cold sweat, dermatitis contact, erythema, increased tendency to bruise, night sweats, and photosensitivity reaction; Rare: ecchymosis. Vascular Disorders — Frequent: hot flush; Infrequent: flushing, orthostatic hypotension, and peripheral coldness. Adverse Reactions Observed in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials in Pediatric Patients Pediatric Clinical Trial Database The data described below reflect exposure to duloxetine (N=567) in pediatric patients aged 7 to 18 years of age from two 10-week, placebo-controlled trials in patients with MDD (N=341) (Studies MDD-6 and MDD-7), one 10-week placebo- controlled trial in GAD (N=135) (Study GAD-6), and a 13-week trial in fibromyalgia (N=91). Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are not approved for the treatment of MDD in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Of the duloxetine-treated patients in these studies, 36% were 7 to 11 years of age (64% were between 12 to 18 years old), 55% were female, and 69% were Caucasian. Patients received 30 to 120 mg of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules per day during placebo-controlled acute treatment studies. In the pediatric MDD, GAD, and fibromyalgia trials up to 40 weeks long, there were 988 duloxetine-treated pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years of age (most patients received 30-120 mg per day) – 35% were 7 to 11 years of age (65% were 12 to 17 years old) and 56% were female. Most Common Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Trials The most common adverse reactions (≥5% in duloxetine-treated patients and at least twice the incidence of placebo- treated patients) in all pooled pediatric populations (MDD, GAD, and fibromyalgia) were decreased weight, decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and diarrhea. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Aged 7 to 17 Years Old with MDD and GAD The adverse reaction profile observed in clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 7 to 18 years old with MDD and GAD was consistent with the adverse reaction profile observed in adult clinical trials. The most common (≥5% and twice placebo) adverse reactions observed in these pediatric clinical trials included: nausea, diarrhea, decreased weight, and dizziness. Table 6 provides the incidence of adverse reactions in MDD and GAD pediatric placebo-controlled trials that occurred in greater than 2% of patients treated with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and with an incidence greater than patients treated with placebo. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are not approved in the treatment of MDD in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Table 6: Adverse Reactions: Incidence of 2% or More and Greater than Placebo in Three 10-week Pediatric Placebo-Controlled Trials in MDD and GAD Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are not approved for the treatment of pediatric MDD [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. The inclusion of an event in the table is determined based on the percentages before rounding; however, the percentages displayed in the table are rounded to the nearest integer. System Organ Class / Adverse Reaction Percentage of Pediatric Patients Reporting Reaction Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=476) Placebo (N=362) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 18 8 Abdominal Pain Also includes abdominal pain upper, abdominal pain lower, abdominal tenderness, abdominal discomfort, and gastrointestinal pain. 13 10 Vomiting 9 4 Diarrhea 6 3 Dry Mouth 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Also includes asthenia. 7 5 Investigations Decreased Weight Frequency based on weight measurement meeting potentially clinically significant threshold of ≥3.5% weight loss (N=467 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules; N=354 Placebo). 14 6 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased Appetite 10 5 Nervous System Disorders Headache 18 13 Somnolence Also includes hypersomnia and sedation. 11 6 Dizziness 8 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia Also includes initial insomnia, insomnia, middle insomnia, and terminal insomnia. 7 4 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Oropharyngeal Pain 4 2 Cough 3 1 Other adverse reactions that occurred at an incidence of less than 2% and were reported by more duloxetine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients in pediatric MDD and GAD clinical trials included: abnormal dreams (including nightmare), anxiety, flushing (including hot flush), hyperhidrosis, palpitations, pulse increased, and tremor (Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is not approved to treat pediatric patients with MDD). The most commonly reported symptoms following discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric MDD and GAD clinical trials included headache, dizziness, insomnia, and abdominal pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Growth (Height and Weight) in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years Old with GAD and MDD Decreased appetite and weight loss have been observed in association with the use of SSRIs and SNRIs. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated pediatric patients in clinical trials experienced a 0.1 kg mean decrease in weight at 10 weeks, compared with a mean weight gain of approximately 0.9 kg in placebo-treated pediatric patients. The proportion of patients who experienced a clinically significant decrease in weight (≥3.5%) was greater in the Duloxetine delayed-release capsules group than in the placebo group (16% and 6%, respectively). Subsequently, over the 4- to 6-month uncontrolled extension periods, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients on average trended toward recovery to their expected baseline weight percentile based on population data from age- and sex-matched peers. In studies up to 9 months, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated pediatric patients experienced an increase in height of 1.7 cm on average (2.2 cm increase in patients 7 to 11 years of age and 1.3 cm increase in patients 12 to 17 years of age). While height increase was observed during these studies, a mean decrease of 1% in height percentile was observed (decrease of 2% in patients 7 to 11 years of age and increase of 0.3% in patients 12 to 17 years of age). Weight and height should be monitored regularly in pediatric patients treated with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Aged 13 to 17 Years Old with Fibromyalgia Table 7 provides the incidence of adverse reactions in a fibromyalgia pediatric placebo-controlled trial (Study FM-4) that occurred in greater than 5% of patients treated with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and with an incidence greater than patients treated with placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. Table 7: Adverse Reactions: Incidence of 5% or More and Greater than Placebo in a 13-week Placebo-Controlled Trial in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years Old with Fibromyalgia (Study FM-4) The inclusion of an event in the table is determined based on the percentages before rounding; however, the percentages displayed in the table are rounded to the nearest integer. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=91) Placebo (N=93) Nausea 25% 15% Decreased appetite 15% 3% Vomiting 15% 5% Decreased weight Frequency based on weight measurement meeting potentially clinically significant threshold of ≥3.5% weight loss (N=89 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules; N=92 Placebo). 15% 5% Headache 14% 11% Nasopharyngitis 9% 2% Somnolence 9% 3% Upper respiratory tract infection 7% 2% Viral gastroenteritis 5% 0% Fatigue 5% 2% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Adverse reactions reported since market introduction that were temporally related to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules therapy and not mentioned elsewhere in labeling include: acute pancreatitis, anaphylactic reaction, aggression and anger (particularly early in treatment or after treatment discontinuation), angioneurotic edema, angle-closure glaucoma, colitis (microscopic or unspecified), cutaneous vasculitis (sometimes associated with systemic involvement), extrapyramidal disorder, galactorrhea, gynecological bleeding, hallucinations, hyperglycemia, hyperprolactinemia, hypersensitivity, hypertensive crisis, muscle spasm, rash, restless legs syndrome, seizures upon treatment discontinuation, supraventricular arrhythmia, tinnitus (upon treatment discontinuation), trismus, and urticaria.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 are responsible for duloxetine metabolism. Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase Duloxetine delayed-release capsules concentrations ( 7.2 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Concomitant use of duloxetine (40 mg once daily) with paroxetine (20 mg once daily) increased the concentration of duloxetine AUC by about 60%, and greater degrees of inhibition are expected with higher doses of paroxetine. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max. 7.4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are co-administered with warfarin. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2-9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC τ,ss , C max,ss or t max,ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.5 Lorazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (60 mg Q 12 hours) and lorazepam (2 mg Q 12 hours), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.6 Temazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (20 mg qhs) and temazepam (30 mg qhs), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.7 Drugs that Affect Gastric Acidity Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have an enteric coating that resists dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5.5. In extremely acidic conditions, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, unprotected by the enteric coating, may undergo hydrolysis to form naphthol. Caution is advised in using Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in patients with conditions that may slow gastric emptying (e.g., some diabetics). Drugs that raise the gastrointestinal pH may lead to an earlier release of duloxetine. However, co- administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. 7.8 Drugs Metabolized by CYP1A2 In vitro drug interaction studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce CYP1A2 activity. Therefore, an increase in the metabolism of CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline, caffeine) resulting from induction is not anticipated, although clinical studies of induction have not been performed. Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1%-15%) and 20% (13%-27%) when co-administered with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). 7.9 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.10 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C9 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit activity. In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. 7.11 Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit or induce CYP3A activity. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the metabolism of CYP3A substrates (e.g., oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents) resulting from induction or inhibition is not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.12 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit CYP2C19 activity at therapeutic concentrations. Inhibition of the metabolism of CYP2C19 substrates is therefore not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.14 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.15 Alcohol When Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and ethanol were administered several hours apart so that peak concentrations of each would coincide, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol. In the Duloxetine delayed-release capsules clinical trials database, three Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.12) ]. 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.17 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because duloxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2-9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Data from a postmarketing retrospective cohort study indicate that use of duloxetine in the month before delivery may be associated with an increased risk of postpartum hemorrhage. Data from published literature and from a postmarketing retrospective cohort study have not identified a clear drug-associated risk of major birth defects or other adverse developmental outcomes (see Data ) . There are risks associated with untreated depression and fibromyalgia in pregnancy, and with exposure to SNRIs and SSRIs, including Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, during pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations ). In rats and rabbits treated with duloxetine during the period of organogenesis, fetal weights were decreased but there was no evidence of developmental effects at doses up to 3 and 6 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 120 mg/day given to adolescents on a mg/m 2 basis. When duloxetine was administered orally to pregnant rats throughout gestation and lactation, pup weights at birth and pup survival to 1 day postpartum were decreased at a dose 2 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg/m 2 basis. At this dose, pup behaviors consistent with increased reactivity, such as increased startle response to noise and decreased habituation of locomotor activity were observed. Post-weaning growth was not adversely affected. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk Women who discontinue antidepressants during pregnancy are more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continue antidepressants. This finding is from a prospective, longitudinal study that followed 201 pregnant women with a history of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at the beginning of pregnancy. Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum. Pregnant women with fibromyalgia are at increased risk for adverse maternal and infant outcomes including preterm premature rupture of membranes, preterm birth, small for gestational age, intrauterine growth restriction, placental disruption, and venous thrombosis. It is not known if these adverse maternal and fetal outcomes are a direct result of fibromyalgia or other comorbid factors. Maternal Adverse Reactions Use of duloxetine in the month before delivery may be associated with an increased risk of postpartum hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reaction Neonates exposed to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and other SNRIs or SSRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery. Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These findings are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of the SNRIs or SSRIs, or possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Data Human Data Data from a postmarketing retrospective claims-based cohort study found an increased risk for postpartum hemorrhage among 955 pregnant women exposed to duloxetine in the last month of pregnancy compared to 4,128,460 unexposed pregnant women (adjusted relative risk: 1.53; 95% CI: 1.08-2.18). The same study did not find a clinically meaningful increase in the risk for major birth defects in the comparison of 2532 women exposed to duloxetine in the first trimester of pregnancy to 1,284,827 unexposed women after adjusting for several confounders. Methodologic limitations include possible residual confounding, misclassification of exposure and outcomes, lack of direct measures of disease severity, and lack of information about alcohol use, nutrition, and over-the-counter medication exposures. Animal Data In animal reproduction studies, duloxetine has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo/fetal and postnatal development. When duloxetine was administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis, there was no evidence of malformations or developmental variations at doses up to 45 mg/kg/day [3 and 6 times, respectively, the MRHD of 120 mg/day given to adolescents on a mg/m 2 basis]. However, fetal weights were decreased at this dose, with a no-effect dose of 10 mg/kg/day (approximately equal to the MRHD in rats and 2 times the MRHD in rabbits). When duloxetine was administered orally to pregnant rats throughout gestation and lactation, the survival of pups to 1 day postpartum and pup body weights at birth and during the lactation period were decreased at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day (2 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg/m 2 basis); the no-effect dose was 10 mg/kg/day. Furthermore, behaviors consistent with increased reactivity, such as increased startle response to noise and decreased habituation of locomotor activity, were observed in pups following maternal exposure to 30 mg/kg/day. Post-weaning growth and reproductive performance of the progeny were not affected adversely by maternal duloxetine treatment.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have been established for treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in patients 7 to 17 years of age and for treatment of juvenile fibromyalgia syndrome in patients 13 to 17 years of age. The safety and effectiveness of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have not been established in pediatric patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, or chronic musculoskeletal pain. Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in pediatric patients. Monitor all pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially during the initial few months of treatment, or at times of dosage changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Perform regular monitoring of weight and growth in pediatric patients treated with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Generalized Anxiety Disorder Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the treatment of GAD in patients 7 to 17 years of age is supported by one 10-week, placebo- controlled trial (GAD-6). The study included 272 pediatric patients with GAD of which 47% were 7 to 11 years of age (53% were 12 to 17 years of age). Duloxetine delayed-release capsules demonstrated superiority over placebo as measured by greater improvement in the Pediatric Anxiety Rating Scale (PARS) for GAD severity score [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. The safety and effectiveness of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the treatment of GAD in pediatric patients less than 7 years of age have not been established. Fibromyalgia Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for treatment of fibromyalgia in patients 13 to 17 years of age is supported by a 13-week placebo- controlled trial in 184 patients with juvenile fibromyalgia syndrome (Study FM-4). Duloxetine delayed-release capsules showed improvement over placebo on the primary endpoint, change from baseline to end-of-treatment on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) – Modified Short Form: Adolescent Version 24-hour average pain severity rating [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . The safety and effectiveness of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the treatment of fibromyalgia in patients less than 13 years of age have not been established. Major Depressive Disorder The safety and effectiveness of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have not been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of MDD. Efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules was not demonstrated in two 10-week, placebo-controlled trials with 800 pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years old with MDD (MDD-6 and MDD-7). Neither Duloxetine delayed-release capsules nor an active control (approved for treatment of pediatric MDD) was superior to placebo. The most frequently observed adverse reactions in the MDD pediatric clinical trials included nausea, headache, decreased weight, and abdominal pain. Decreased appetite and weight loss have been observed in association with the use of SSRIs and SNRIs. Juvenile Animal Toxicology Data Duloxetine administration to young rats from post-natal day 21 (weaning) through post-natal day 90 (adult) resulted in decreased body weights that persisted into adulthood, but recovered when drug treatment was discontinued; slightly delayed (~1.5 days) sexual maturation in females, without any effect on fertility; and a delay in learning a complex task in adulthood, which was not observed after drug treatment was discontinued. These effects were observed at the high dose of 45 mg/kg/day (2 times the MRHD, for a child); the no-effect-level was 20 mg/kg/day (≈1 times the MRHD, for a child).

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Geriatric Exposure in Premarketing Clinical Trials of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules Of the 2,418 patients in MDD trials, 6% (143) were 65 years of age or over. Of the 1,041 patients in CLBP trials, 21% (221) were 65 years of age or over. Of the 487 patients in OA trials, 41% (197) were 65 years of age or over. Of the 1,074 patients in the DPNP trials, 33% (357) were 65 years of age or over. Of the 1,761 patients in FM trials, 8% (140) were 65 years of age or over. In the MDD, GAD, DPNP, FM, OA, and CLBP studies, no overall differences in safety or effectiveness were generally observed between these patients and younger adult patients, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between these geriatric and younger adult patients, but greater sensitivity of some older patients cannot be ruled out. SSRIs and SNRIs, including Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have been associated with clinically significant hyponatremia in geriatric patients, who may be at greater risk for this adverse reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ]. In an analysis of data from all placebo-controlled-trials, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients reported a higher rate of falls compared to placebo-treated patients. The increased risk appears to be proportional to a patient's underlying risk for falls. Underlying risk appears to increase steadily with age. As geriatric patients tend to have a higher prevalence of risk factors for falls such as medications, medical comorbidities and gait disturbances, the impact of increasing age by itself on falls during Duloxetine delayed-release capsules treatment is unclear. Falls with serious consequences including bone fractures and hospitalizations have been reported with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine after a single dose of 40 mg were compared in healthy elderly females (65 to 77 years) and healthy middle-age females (32 to 50 years). There was no difference in the C max , but the AUC of duloxetine was somewhat (about 25%) higher and the half-life about 4 hours longer in the elderly females. Population pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that the typical values for clearance decrease by approximately 1% for each year of age between 25 to 75 years of age; but age as a predictive factor only accounts for a small percentage of between-patient variability. Dosage adjustment based on the age of the adult patient is not necessary.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE 10.1 Signs and Symptoms In postmarketing experience, fatal outcomes have been reported for acute duloxetine overdoses, primarily with mixed overdoses, but also with duloxetine only, including 1000 mg of duloxetine (approximately 8.3 times the maximum recommended dosage). Signs and symptoms of overdose (duloxetine alone or with mixed drugs) included somnolence, coma, serotonin syndrome, seizures, syncope, tachycardia, hypotension, hypertension, and vomiting. 10.2 Management of Overdose There is no specific antidote to a Duloxetine delayed-release capsules overdosage, but if serotonin syndrome ensues, specific treatment (such as with cyproheptadine and/or temperature control) may be considered. In case of acute overdose with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdose with any drug, such as assuring an adequate airway, oxygenation, and ventilation and monitoring cardiac rhythm and vital signs. Gastric lavage with a large-bore orogastric tube with appropriate airway protection, if needed, may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic patients. Induction of emesis is not recommended. Activated charcoal may be useful in limiting absorption of duloxetine from the gastrointestinal tract. Administration of activated charcoal has been shown to decrease duloxetine AUC and C max by an average of one-third, although some patients had a limited effect of activated charcoal. Due to the large volume of distribution of duloxetine, forced diuresis, dialysis, hemoperfusion, and exchange transfusion are unlikely to be beneficial. In managing overdose, the possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered. A specific caution involves patients who overdose with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and tricyclic antidepressants. In such a case, decreased clearance of the parent tricyclic and/or its active metabolite may increase the possibility of clinically significant sequelae and extend the time needed for close medical observation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Consider contacting a poison control center (1-800-222-1222 or www.poison.org) for additional information on the treatment of overdosage.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Overview of the Clinical Trials The efficacy of duloxetine has been established in the following populations in adequate and well-controlled trials: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD): 4 short-term (Studies MDD-1, MDD-2, MDD-3, and MDD-4) and 1 maintenance trial (Study MDD-5) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD): 3 short-term trials in adults (Studies GAD-1, GAD-2, and GAD-3), 1 maintenance trial in adults (Study GAD-4), 1 short-term trial in geriatric patients (Study GAD-5), and 1 short-term trial in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age (Study GAD-6) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain (DPNP): Two 12-week trials in adults (Studies DPNP-1 and DPNP-2) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. Fibromyalgia (FM): Two trials in adults (one of 3 months duration and one of 6 months duration) (Studies FM-1 and FM-2) and one 13-week trial in pediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age (Study FM-4) [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain: Two 12- to 13-week trials in adult patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP) (Studies CLBP-1 and CLBP-3) and one 13-week trial in adult patients with chronic pain due to osteoarthritis (OA) (Study OA-1) [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. Additionally, a summary of the following trials that did not demonstrate efficacy are presented below: Study FM-3 (a 16-week trial in adult patients with fibromyalgia), Study CLBP-2 (a 13-week trial in adult patients with CLBP), and Study OA-2 (a 13-week trial in adult patients with chronic pain due to OA). 14.2 Major Depressive Disorder in Adults The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules as a treatment for MDD in adults was established in 4 randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled, fixed-dose trials in adult outpatients (18 to 83 years) meeting DSM-IV criteria for MDD: In Studies MDD-1 and MDD-2, patients were randomized to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily (N=123 and N=128, respectively) or placebo (N=122 and N=139, respectively) for 9 weeks In Study MDD-3, patients were randomized to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 20 or 40 mg twice daily (N=86 and N=91, respectively) or placebo (N=89) for 8 weeks In Study MDD-4, patients were randomized to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 40 or 60 mg twice daily (N=95 and N=93, respectively) or placebo (N=93) for 8 weeks. In all four trials, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules demonstrated superiority over placebo as measured by improvement in the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) total score (see Table 8 ). There is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefits. In all of these clinical trials, analyses of the relationship between treatment outcome and age, gender, and race did not suggest any differential responsiveness on the basis of these patient characteristics. Table 8: Summary of the Primary Efficacy Results for Adult Trials in MDD Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure: HAMD-17 Mean Baseline Score (SD) LS Mean Change from Baseline (SE) Placebo-subtracted Difference Difference (drug minus placebo) in least-squares mean change from baseline. (95% CI) SD: standard deviation; SE: standard error; LS Mean: least-squares mean; CI: confidence interval, not adjusted for multiplicity in trials where multiple dose groups were included. Study MDD-1 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg/day) Doses statistically significantly superior to placebo. 21.5 (4.10) -10.9 (0.70) -4.9 (-6.8, -2.9) Placebo 21.1 (3.71) -6.1 (0.69) -- Study MDD-2 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg/day) 20.3 (3.32) -10.5 (0.71) -2.2 (-4.0, -0.3) Placebo 20.5 (3.42) -8.3 (0.67) -- Study MDD-3 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (20 mg BID) 18.6 (5.85) -7.4 (0.80) -2.4 (-4.7, -0.2) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (40 mg BID) 18.1 (4.52) -8.6 (0.81) -3.6 (-5.9, -1.4) Placebo 17.2 (5.11) -5.0 (0.81) -- Study MDD-4 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (40 mg BID) 19.9 (3.54) -11.0 (0.49) -2.2 (-3.6, -0.9) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg BID) 20.2 (3.41) -12.1 (0.49) -3.3 (-4.7, -1.9) Placebo 19.9 (3.58) -8.8 (0.50) -- In Study MDD-5, 533 adult patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for MDD received duloxetine 60 mg once daily during an initial 12-week open-label treatment phase. Two hundred and seventy-eight patients who responded to open label treatment [defined as meeting the following criteria at weeks 10 and 12: a HAMD-17 total score ≤9, Clinical Global Impressions of Severity (CGI-S) ≤2, and not meeting the DSM-IV criteria for MDD] were randomly assigned to continuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same dosage (N=136) or to placebo (N=142) for 6 months. In Study MDD-5, patients on duloxetine experienced a statistically significantly longer time to relapse of depression than did patients on placebo (see Figure 1 ). Relapse was defined as an increase in the CGI-S score of ≥2 points compared with that obtained at week 12, as well as meeting the DSM-IV criteria for MDD at 2 consecutive visits at least 2 weeks apart, where the 2-week temporal criterion had to be satisfied at only the second visit. Figure 1: Cumulative Proportion Kaplan-Meier estimator method of Adult Patients with MDD Relapse (Study MDD-5) Figure 1 14.3 Generalized Anxiety Disorder GAD Trials in Adults (Including Geriatric Patients) The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) was established in 1 fixed-dose randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial and 2 flexible-dose randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in adult outpatients between 18 and 83 years of age meeting the DSM-IV criteria for GAD (Studies GAD-1, GAD-2, and GAD-3, respectively). In Studies GAD-1 and GAD-2, the starting dose was 60 mg once daily (down titration to 30 mg once daily was allowed for tolerability reasons; the dosage could be increased to 60 mg once daily). Fifteen percent of patients were down titrated. Study GAD-3 had a starting dose of 30 mg once daily for 1 week before increasing it to 60 mg once daily. Studies GAD-2 and GAD-3 involved dose titration with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules doses ranging from 60 mg once daily to 120 mg once daily (N=168 and N=162) compared to placebo (N=159 and N=161) over a 10-week treatment period. The mean dosage for completers at endpoint in these trials was 104.8 mg/day. Study GAD-1 evaluated Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosages of 60 mg once daily (N=168) and 120 mg once daily (N=170) compared to placebo (N=175) over a 9-week treatment period. While a 120 mg/day dose was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit. In all 3 trials, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules demonstrated superiority over placebo as measured by greater improvement in the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) total score (see Table 9 ) and by the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) global functional impairment score. The SDS is a composite measurement of the extent emotional symptoms disrupt patient functioning in 3 life domains: work/school, social life/leisure activities, and family life/home responsibilities. In Study GAD-4, 887 patients meeting DSM-IV-TR criteria for GAD received Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg to 120 mg once daily during an initial 26-week open-label treatment phase. Four hundred and twenty-nine patients who responded to open- label treatment [defined as meeting the following criteria at weeks 24 and 26: a decrease from baseline HAM-A total score by at least 50% to a score no higher than 11, and a Clinical Global Impressions of Improvement (CGI-Improvement) score of 1 or 2] were randomly assigned to continuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same dosage (N=216) or to placebo (N=213) and were observed for relapse. Of the patients randomized, 73% had been in a responder status for at least 10 weeks. Relapse was defined as an increase in CGI-Severity score at least 2 points to a score ≥4 and a MINI (Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview) diagnosis of GAD (excluding duration), or discontinuation due to lack of efficacy. Patients taking Duloxetine delayed-release capsules experienced a statistically significantly longer time to relapse of GAD than did patients taking placebo (see Figure 2 ). Subgroup analyses did not indicate that there were any differences in treatment outcomes as a function of age or gender. GAD Trial in Geriatric Patients The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in the treatment of patients ≥65 years of age with GAD was established in one 10-week flexible-dose, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adults ≥65 years of age meeting the DSM-IV criteria for GAD (Study GAD-5). In Study GAD-5, the starting dose was 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before further dose increases in 30 mg increments at treatment weeks 2, 4, and 7 up to 120 mg once daily were allowed based on investigator judgment of clinical response and tolerability. The mean dosage for patients completing the 10-week acute treatment phase was 51 mg. Patients treated with duloxetine (N=151) demonstrated significantly greater improvement compared with placebo (N=140) on mean change from baseline to endpoint as measured by the HAM-A total score (see Table 9 ). GAD Trial in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years Old The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in the treatment of pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD was established in 1 flexible-dose randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in pediatric outpatients with GAD (based on DSM-IV criteria) (Study GAD-6). In Study GAD-6, the starting dosage was 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks. Further dosage increases in 30 mg increments up to 120 mg once daily were allowed based on investigator judgment of clinical response and tolerability. The mean dosage for patients completing the 10-week treatment phase was 57.6 mg/day. In this study, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=135) demonstrated superiority over placebo (N=137) from baseline to endpoint as measured by greater improvement in the Pediatric Anxiety Rating Scale (PARS) for GAD severity score (see Table 9 ). Table 9: Summary of the Primary Efficacy Results for GAD Trials Study Number (population) (measurement) Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure Mean Baseline Score (SD) LS Mean Change from Baseline (SE) Placebo-subtracted Difference Difference (drug minus placebo) in least squares mean change from baseline. (95% CI) SD: standard deviation; SE: standard error; LS Mean: least-squares mean; CI: confidence interval, not adjusted for multiplicity in trials where multiple dose groups were included. Study GAD-1 (Adult) (HAM-A) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg/day) Dose statistically significantly superior to placebo. 25.1 (7.18) -12.8 (0.68) -4.4 (-6.2, -2.5) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (120 mg/day) 25.1 (7.24) -12.5 (0.67) -4.1 (-5.9, -2.3) Placebo 25.8 (7.66) -8.4 (0.67) -- Study GAD-2 (Adult) (HAM-A) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60-120 mg/day) 22.5 (7.44) -8.1 (0.70) -2.2 (-4.2, -0.3) Placebo 23.5 (7.91) -5.9 (0.70) -- Study GAD-3 (Adult) (HAM-A) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60-120 mg/day) 25.8 (5.66) -11.8 (0.69) -2.6 (-4.5, -0.7) Placebo 25.0 (5.82) -9.2 (0.67) -- Study GAD-5 (Geriatric) (HAM-A) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60-120 mg/day) 24.6 (6.21) -15.9 (0.63) -4.2 (-5.9, -2.5) Placebo 24.5 (7.05) -11.7 (0.67) -- Study GAD-6 (Pediatric) (PARS for GAD) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (30-120 mg/day) 17.5 (1.98) -9.7 (0.50) -2.7 (-4.0, -1.3) Placebo 17.4 (2.24) -7.1 (0.50) -- Figure 2: Cumulative Proportion Kaplan-Meier estimator method of Adult Patients with GAD Relapse (Study GAD-4) Figure 2 14.4 Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Adults The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy in adults was established in 2 randomized, 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose trials in adult patients having diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) for at least 6 months (Study DPNP-1 and Study DPNP-2). These trials enrolled a total of 791 patients of whom 592 (75%) completed the trials. Patients enrolled had Type I or II diabetes mellitus with a diagnosis of painful distal symmetrical sensorimotor polyneuropathy for at least 6 months. The patients had a baseline pain score of ≥4 on an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). Patients were permitted up to 4 grams of acetaminophen per day as needed for pain, in addition to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Patients recorded their pain daily in a diary. Both trials compared Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily or 60 mg twice daily with placebo. Study DPNP-1 additionally compared Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 20 mg with placebo. A total of 457 patients (342 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, 115 placebo) were enrolled in Study DPNP-1 and a total of 334 patients (226 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, 108 placebo) were enrolled in Study DPNP-2. Treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg one or two times a day statistically significantly improved the endpoint mean pain scores from baseline and increased the proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in pain scores from baseline. For various degrees of improvement in pain from baseline to study endpoint, Figures 3 and 4 show the fraction of patients achieving that degree of improvement in Studies DPNP-1 and DPNP-2, respectively. The figures are cumulative, so that patients whose change from baseline is, for example, 50%, are also included at every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the trial were assigned 0% improvement. Some patients experienced a decrease in pain as early as week 1, which persisted throughout the trial. Figure 3: Percentage of DPNP Adult Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study DPNP-1) Figure 4: Percentage of DPNP Adult Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study DPNP-2) Figure 3 Figure 4 14.5 Fibromyalgia Adult Trials in Fibromyalgia The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules for the management of fibromyalgia in adults was established in two randomized, double- blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose trials in adult patients meeting the American College of Rheumatology criteria for fibromyalgia (a history of widespread pain for 3 months, and pain present at 11 or more of the 18 specific tender point sites). Study FM-1 was three months in duration and enrolled female patients only. Study FM-2 was six months in duration and enrolled male and female patients. Approximately 25% of participants had a comorbid diagnosis of MDD. Studies FM-1 and FM-2 enrolled a total of 874 patients of whom 541 (62%) completed the trials. A total of 354 patients (234 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, 120 placebo) were enrolled in Study FM-1 and a total of 520 patients (376 Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, 144 placebo) were enrolled in Study FM-2 (5% male, 95% female). The patients had a baseline pain score of 6.5 on an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worse possible pain). Studies FM-1 and FM-2 compared Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily or 120 mg daily (given in divided doses in Study FM-1 and as a single daily dose in Study FM-2) with placebo. Study FM-2 additionally compared Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 20 mg with placebo during the initial three months of a six-month trial. Treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg or 120 mg daily statistically significantly improved the endpoint mean pain scores from baseline and increased the proportion of patients with at least a 50% reduction in pain score from baseline. Pain reduction was observed in patients both with and without comorbid MDD. However, the degree of pain reduction may be greater in patients with comorbid MDD. For various degrees of improvement in pain from baseline to study endpoint, Figures 5 and 6 show the fraction of patients achieving that degree of improvement in Studies FM-1 and FM-2, respectively. The figures are cumulative so that patients whose change from baseline is, for example, 50%, are also included at every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the trial were assigned 0% improvement. Some patients experienced a decrease in pain as early as week 1, which persisted throughout the trial. Improvement was also demonstrated on measures of function (Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaires) and patient global impression of change (PGI). Neither trial demonstrated a benefit of 120 mg compared to 60 mg, and a higher dosage was associated with more adverse reactions and premature discontinuations of treatment. Figure 5: Percentage of Adult Fibromyalgia Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at Study Endpoint as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study FM-1) Figure 6: Percentage of Adult Fibromyalgia Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at Study Endpoint as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study FM-2) Additionally, the benefit of up-titration in non-responders to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at 60 mg/day was evaluated in a separate trial (Study FM-3). Adult patients were initially treated with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily for eight weeks in open-label fashion. Subsequently, completers of this phase were randomized to double-blind treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at either 60 mg once daily or 120 mg once daily. Responders were defined as patients who had at least a 30% reduction in pain score from baseline at the end of the 8-week treatment. Patients who were non-responders at 8 weeks were no more likely to meet response criteria at the end of 60 weeks of treatment if blindly titrated to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 120 mg as compared to those who were blindly continued on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg. Figure 5 Figure 6 Pediatric Trial in Fibromyalgia Duloxetine delayed-release capsules were studied in 184 pediatric patients aged 13 to 17 years with juvenile fibromyalgia syndrome in a 13-week, placebo-controlled trial (Study FM-4). In Study FM-4, 149 (81%) patients completed the trial. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules (N=91) were initiated at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for one week and titrated to 60 mg once daily for 12 weeks, as tolerated. The mean dosage for patients completing the 12-week treatment phase was 49 mg/day. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules showed improvement over placebo on the primary endpoint [change from baseline to end-of-treatment on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) – Modified Short Form: Adolescent Version 24-hour average pain severity rating] with a p-value of 0.052 from the pre- specified primary analysis, and p-values ranging from 0.011-0.020 from sensitivity analyses which assigned baseline values to missing assessments of some patients who did not complete the trial for various reasons. The patients had a baseline BPI of 5.7. For various degrees of improvement in pain from baseline to study endpoint, Figure 7 shows the fraction of patients achieving that degree of improvement in Study FM-4. Figure 7: Percentage of Pediatric Patients Aged 13 to 17 Years Old with Juvenile Fibromyalgia Syndrome Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at Week 12 (Study FM-4) a Figure 7 14.6 Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain in Adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults. This has been established in trials in adult patients with chronic low back pain and chronic pain due to osteoarthritis. Trials in Chronic Low Back Pain in Adults The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in chronic low back pain (CLBP) in adults was assessed in two double-blind, placebo- controlled, randomized clinical trials of 13-weeks duration (Studies CLBP-1 and CLBP-2), and one of 12-weeks duration (CLBP-3). Studies CLBP-1 and CLBP-3 demonstrated efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in the treatment of CLBP. Patients in all trials had no signs of radiculopathy or spinal stenosis. Study CLBP-1: Two hundred thirty-six adult patients (N=115 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, N=121 on placebo) enrolled and 182 (77%) completed 13-week treatment phase. After 7 weeks of treatment, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients with less than 30% reduction in average daily pain and who were able to tolerate 60 mg once daily had their Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage, in a double- blinded fashion, increased to 120 mg once daily for the remainder of the trial. Patients had a mean baseline pain rating of 6 on a numerical rating scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). After 13 weeks of treatment, patients taking Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60-120 mg daily had a significantly greater pain reduction compared to patients taking placebo. Randomization was stratified by the patients' baseline NSAIDs use status. Subgroup analyses did not indicate that there were differences in treatment outcomes as a function of NSAIDs use. Study CLBP-2: Four hundred and four patients were randomized to receive fixed dosages of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules daily or a matching placebo (N=59 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 20 mg, N=116 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg, N=112 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 120 mg, N=117 on placebo) and 267 (66%) completed the entire 13-week trial. After 13 weeks of treatment, none of the three Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosages showed a statistically significant difference in pain reduction compared to placebo. Study CLBP-3: Four hundred and one patients were randomized to receive fixed doses of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg daily or placebo (N=198 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, N=203 on placebo), and 303 (76%) completed the trial. Patients had a mean baseline pain rating of 6 on a numerical rating scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). After 12 weeks of treatment, patients taking Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg daily had significantly greater pain reduction compared to patients taking placebo. For various degrees of improvement in pain from baseline to study endpoint, Figures 8 and 9 show the fraction of patients in Studies CLBP-1 and CLBP-3 achieving that degree of improvement, respectively. The figures are cumulative, so that patients whose change from baseline is, for example, 50%, are also included at every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the trial were assigned the value of 0% improvement. Figure 8: Percentage of Adult Patients with CLBP Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study CLBP-1) Figure 9: Percentage of Adult Patients with CLBP Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study CLBP-3) Figure 8 Figure 9 Trials in Chronic Pain Due to Osteoarthritis in Adults The efficacy of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in chronic pain due to osteoarthritis (OA) in adults was assessed in 2 double-blind, placebo- controlled, randomized clinical trials of 13-weeks duration (Study OA-1 and Study OA-2). All patients in both trials fulfilled the ACR clinical and radiographic criteria for classification of idiopathic OA of the knee. Randomization was stratified by the patients' baseline NSAIDs-use status. Patients assigned to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules started treatment in both trials at a dose of 30 mg once daily for one week. After the first week, the dose of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules was increased to 60 mg once daily. After 7 weeks of treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily, in Study OA-1 patients with sub-optimal response to treatment (<30% pain reduction) and tolerated Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily had their dose increased to 120 mg. However, in Study OA-2, all patients, regardless of their response to treatment after 7 weeks, were re-randomized to either continue receiving Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily or have their dosage increased to 120 mg once daily for the remainder of the trial. Patients in the placebo treatment groups in both trials received a matching placebo for the entire duration of trials. For both trials, efficacy analyses were conducted using 13-week data from the combined Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg and 120 mg once daily treatment groups compared to the placebo group. Study OA-1: Two hundred fifty-six patients (N=128 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, N=128 on placebo) enrolled and 204 (80%) completed the trial. Patients had a mean baseline pain rating of 6 on a numerical rating scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). After 13 weeks of treatment, patients taking Duloxetine delayed-release capsules had significantly greater pain reduction than patients taking placebo. Subgroup analyses did not indicate that there were differences in treatment outcomes as a function of NSAIDs use. Study OA-2: Two hundred thirty-one patients (N=111 on Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, N=120 on placebo) enrolled and 173 (75%) completed the trial. Patients had a mean baseline pain of 6 on a numerical rating scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). After 13 weeks of treatment, patients taking Duloxetine delayed-release capsules did not show a significantly greater pain reduction than patients taking placebo. In Study OA-1, for various degrees of improvement in pain from baseline to study endpoint, Figure 10 shows the fraction of patients achieving that degree of improvement. The figure is cumulative, so that patients whose change from baseline is, for example, 50%, are also included at every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the trial were assigned the value of 0% improvement. Figure 10: Percentage of Adult Patients with OA Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 24-Hour Average Pain Severity (Study OA-1) Figure 10

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature].

SPL TEXT:
Duloxetine Delayed-Release DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE METHACRYLIC ACID AND ETHYL ACRYLATE COPOLYMER SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE POLYSORBATE 80 TRIETHYL CITRATE FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE PROPYLENE GLYCOL AMMONIA POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC SUCROSE STARCH, CORN GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE DULOXETINE Ochre B;746 Duloxetine Delayed-Release DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE METHACRYLIC ACID AND ETHYL ACRYLATE COPOLYMER SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE POLYSORBATE 80 TRIETHYL CITRATE FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE PROPYLENE GLYCOL AMMONIA POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC SUCROSE STARCH, CORN GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C YELLOW NO. 6 D&C YELLOW NO. 10 DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE DULOXETINE B;747 Duloxetine Delayed-Release DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE METHACRYLIC ACID AND ETHYL ACRYLATE COPOLYMER SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE POLYSORBATE 80 TRIETHYL CITRATE FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE PROPYLENE GLYCOL AMMONIA POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE SHELLAC SUCROSE STARCH, CORN GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C YELLOW NO. 6 D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE DULOXETINE Ochre B;748