DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets, an atypical antipsychotic drug, are a tricyclic dibenzodiazepine derivative, 8-chloro-11-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-5 H -dibenzo [ b , e ] [1,4] diazepine. The structural formula is: C 18 H 19 CIN 4 M.W. 326.82 Clozapine, USP is available as yellow, orally disintegrating tablets of 150 mg and 200 mg for oral administration without water. Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets may be chewed. Each orally disintegrating tablet contains clozapine, USP, equivalent to 150 mg and 200 mg. The active component of Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets is clozapine, USP. The remaining components are aspartame powder, colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, magnesium stearate, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, peppermint flavor, sodium stearyl fumarate and xylitol. THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS ASPARTAME AND IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY INFANTS. PHENYLKETONURICS: CONTAINS PHENYLALANINE [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.19 )] . Phenylalanine is a component of aspartame. Each 150 mg, orally disintegrating tablet contains 30 mg aspartame, thus, 16.8 mg phenylalanine. Each 200 mg, orally disintegrating tablet contains 40 mg aspartame, thus, 22.4 mg phenylalanine. The allowable daily intake of aspartame is 50 mg per kilogram of body weight per day. structural formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of clozapine is unknown. However, it has been proposed that the therapeutic efficacy of clozapine in schizophrenia is mediated through antagonism of the dopamine type 2 (D 2 ) and the serotonin type 2A (5-HT 2A ) receptors. Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets also act as an antagonist at adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic and other dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Clozapine demonstrated binding affinity to the following receptors: histamine H 1 (K i 1.1 nM), adrenergic α 1A (K i 1.6 nM), serotonin 5-HT 6 (K i 4 nM ) , serotonin 5-HT 2A (K i 5.4 nM), muscarinic M 1 (K i 6.2 nM), serotonin 5-HT 7 (K i 6.3 nM), serotonin 5-HT 2C (K i 9.4 nM), dopamine D 4 (K i 24 nM), adrenergic α 2A (K i 90 nM), serotonin 5-HT 3 (K i 95 nM), serotonin 5-HT 1A (K i 120 nM), dopamine D 2 (K i 160 nM), dopamine D 1 (K i 270 nM), dopamine D 5 (K i 454 nM), and dopamine D 3 (K i 555 nM). Clozapine causes little or no prolactin elevation. Clinical electroencephalogram (EEG) studies demonstrated that clozapine increases delta and theta activity and slows dominant alpha frequencies. Enhanced synchronization occurs. Sharp wave activity and spike and wave complexes may also develop. Patients have reported an intensification of dream activity during clozapine therapy. REM sleep was found to be increased to 85% of the total sleep time. In these patients, the onset of REM sleep occurred almost immediately after falling asleep. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In man, clozapine tablets (25 mg and 100 mg) are equally bioavailable relative to a clozapine solution. Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are bioequivalent to Clozaril ® (clozapine) tablets, a registered trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Following a dosage of 100 mg b.i.d., the average steady-state peak plasma concentration was 413 ng/mL (range: 132 to 854 ng/mL), occurring at the average of 2.3 hours (range: 1 to 6 hours) after dosing. The average minimum concentration at steady-state was 168 ng/mL (range: 45 to 574 ng/mL), after 100 mg b.i.d. dosing. A comparative bioequivalence/bioavailability study was conducted in 32 patients (with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder) comparing clozapine orally disintegrating 200 mg tablets to 2 × clozapine orally disintegrating 100 mg tablets (the approved reference product) under fasted conditions. The study also evaluated the effect of food and chewing on the pharmacokinetics of the 200 mg tablet. Under fasted conditions, the mean AUC ss and C min,ss of clozapine for the 200 mg tablets were equivalent to those of the 2 x 100 mg tablets. The mean C max,ss of clozapine for clozapine orally disintegrating 200 mg tablets was 85% that for 2 x 100 mg clozapine orally disintegrating tablets. This decrease in C max,ss for clozapine orally disintegrating 200 mg tablets is not clinically significant. For clozapine orally disintegrating 200 mg tablets, food significantly increased the C min,ss of clozapine by 21%. However, this increase is not clinically significant. The mean AUC ss and C max,ss of clozapine under fed conditions were equivalent to those under fasted conditions. Food delayed clozapine absorption by 1.5 hours, from a median T max of 2.5 hours under fasted conditions to 4 hours under fed conditions. The mean C max,ss of clozapine under chewed conditions for clozapine orally disintegrating 200 mg tablets was about 86% that for 2 x 100 mg clozapine orally disintegrating tablets under non-chewed conditions, while the AUC ss and C min,ss values were similar between the chewed and non-chewed conditions. In a food-effect study, a single dose of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets 12.5 mg was administered to healthy volunteers under fasting conditions and after a high-fat meal. When clozapine orally disintegrating tablets were administered after a high-fat meal, the C max of both clozapine and its active metabolite, desmethylclozapine, were decreased by approximately 20%, compared to administration under fasting conditions, while the AUC values were unchanged. This decrease in C max is not clinically significant. Therefore, clozapine orally disintegrating tablets can be taken without regard to meals. Distribution Clozapine is approximately 97% bound to serum proteins. The interaction between clozapine and other highly protein-bound drugs has not been fully evaluated but may be important [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Metabolism and Excretion Clozapine is almost completely metabolized prior to excretion, and only trace amounts of unchanged drug are detected in the urine and feces. Clozapine is a substrate for many cytochrome P450 isozymes, in particular CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Approximately 50% of the administered dose is excreted in the urine and 30% in the feces. The demethylated, hydroxylated, and N -oxide derivatives are components in both urine and feces. Pharmacological testing has shown the desmethyl metabolite (norclozapine) to have only limited activity, while the hydroxylated and N -oxide derivatives were inactive. The mean elimination half-life of clozapine after a single 75 mg dose was 8 hours (range: 4 to 12 hours), compared to a mean elimination half-life of 12 hours (range: 4 to 66 hours), after achieving steady state with 100 mg twice daily dosing. A comparison of single-dose and multiple-dose administration of clozapine demonstrated that the elimination half-life increased significantly after multiple dosing relative to that after single-dose administration, suggesting the possibility of concentration-dependent pharmacokinetics. However, at steady state, approximately dose-proportional changes with respect to AUC (area under the curve), peak, and minimum clozapine plasma concentrations were observed after administration of 37.5, 75, and 150 mg twice daily. Drug-Drug Interaction Studies Fluvoxamine A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in 16 schizophrenic patients who received clozapine under steady-state conditions. After coadministration of fluvoxamine for 14 days, mean trough concentrations of clozapine and its metabolites, N -desmethylclozapine and clozapine N -oxide, were elevated about three-fold compared to baseline steady state concentrations. Paroxetine, Fluoxetine, and Sertraline In a study of schizophrenic patients (n=14) who received clozapine under steady-state conditions, coadministration of paroxetine produced only minor changes in the levels of clozapine and its metabolites. However, other published reports describe modest elevations (less than two-fold) of clozapine and metabolite concentrations when clozapine was taken with paroxetine, fluoxetine, and sertraline. Specific Population Studies Renal or Hepatic Impairment No specific pharmacokinetic studies were conducted to investigate the effects of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of clozapine. Higher clozapine plasma concentrations are likely in patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment when given usual doses. CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers A subset (3% to 10%) of the population has reduced activity of CYP2D6 (CYP2D6 poor metabolizers). These individuals may develop higher than expected plasma concentrations of clozapine when given usual doses. Patients with Pneumonia and Other Inflammatory Conditions Published case reports describe examples where pneumonia or other inflammatory conditions may increase clozapine concentrations. The clinical significance, the impact of treatments to modulate this inflammation, and mechanism of this potential increase in clozapine concentrations have not been fully characterized but may involve reduced cytochrome P450 1A2 activity.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of clozapine is unknown. However, it has been proposed that the therapeutic efficacy of clozapine in schizophrenia is mediated through antagonism of the dopamine type 2 (D 2 ) and the serotonin type 2A (5-HT 2A ) receptors. Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets also act as an antagonist at adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic and other dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: Treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in an active-controlled study. ( 1.1 , 14.1 ) Reducing suicidal behavior in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Efficacy was established in an active-controlled study. ( 1.2 , 14.2 ) 1.1 Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the treatment of severely ill patients with schizophrenia who fail to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment. Because of the risks of severe neutropenia and of seizure associated with their use, clozapine orally disintegrating tablets should be used only in patients who have failed to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.5 )]. The effectiveness of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets in treatment-resistant schizophrenia was demonstrated in a 6-week, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled study comparing clozapine orally disintegrating tablets and chlorpromazine in patients who had failed other antipsychotics [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Recurrent Suicidal Behavior in Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective Disorder Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who are judged to be at chronic risk for re-experiencing suicidal behavior, based on history and recent clinical state. Suicidal behavior refers to actions by a patient that put him/herself at risk for death. The effectiveness of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets in reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior was demonstrated over a two-year treatment period in the InterSePT™ trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] .

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity to clozapine (e.g., photosensitivity, vasculitis, erythema multiforme, or Stevens-Johnson Syndrome) or any other component of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Known serious hypersensitivity to clozapine or any other component of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: SEVERE NEUTROPENIA; ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION, BRADYCARDIA, AND SYNCOPE; SEIZURE; MYOCARDITIS AND CARDIOMYOPATHY; INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS Severe Neutropenia Clozapine treatment has caused severe neutropenia, defined as an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 500/μL. Severe neutropenia can lead to serious infection and death. Prior to initiating treatment with clozapine, a baseline ANC must be at least 1500/μL for the general population; and must be at least 1000/μL for patients with documented Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN). During treatment, patients must have regular ANC monitoring. Advise patients to immediately report symptoms consistent with severe neutropenia or infection (e.g., fever, weakness, lethargy, or sore throat) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Because of the risk of severe neutropenia, clozapine is available only through a restricted program under a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy (REMS) called the Clozapine REMS Program [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Orthostatic Hypotension, Bradycardia, Syncope Orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, syncope, and cardiac arrest have occurred with clozapine treatment. The risk is highest during the initial titration period, particularly with rapid dose escalation. These reactions can occur with the first dose, with doses as low as 12.5 mg per day, or when restarting patients who have had even a brief interruption in treatment with clozapine. Initiate treatment at 12.5 mg once or twice daily; titrate slowly; and use divided dosages to minimize risk. Use clozapine cautiously in patients with cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease or conditions predisposing to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, use of antihypertensive medications) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , and 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Seizures Seizures have occurred with clozapine treatment. The risk is dose-related. Initiate treatment at 12.5 mg, titrate gradually, and use divided dosing. Use caution when administering clozapine to patients with a history of seizures or other predisposing risk factors for seizure (CNS pathology, medications that lower the seizure threshold, alcohol abuse). Caution patients about engaging in any activity where sudden loss of consciousness could cause serious risk to themselves or others [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Myocarditis and Cardiomyopathy Fatal myocarditis and cardiomyopathy have occurred with clozapine treatment. Discontinue clozapine and obtain a cardiac evaluation upon suspicion of these reactions. Generally, patients with clozapine-related myocarditis or cardiomyopathy should not be rechallenged with clozapine. Consider the possibility of myocarditis or cardiomyopathy if chest pain, tachycardia, palpitations, dyspnea, fever, flu-like symptoms, hypotension, or ECG changes occur [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Clozapine is not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . WARNING: SEVERE NEUTROPENIA; ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION, BRADYCARDIA, AND SYNCOPE; SEIZURE; MYOCARDITIS AND CARDIOMYOPATHY; INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Severe Neutropenia: Clozapine can cause severe neutropenia, which can lead to serious and fatal infections. Patients initiating and continuing treatment with clozapine must have a baseline blood absolute neutrophil count (ANC) measured before treatment initiation and regular ANC monitoring during treatment. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Clozapine is available only through a restricted program called the Clozapine REMS. ( 5.2 ) Orthostatic Hypotension, Bradycardia, and Syncope: Risk is dose-related. Starting dose is 12.5 mg. Titrate gradually and use divided dosages. ( 2.3 , 2.6 , 5.3 ) Seizure: Risk is dose-related. Titrate gradually and use divided doses. Use with caution in patients with history of seizure or risk factors for seizure. ( 2.3 , 5.5 ) Myocarditis and Cardiomyopathy: Can be fatal. Discontinue and obtain cardiac evaluation if findings suggest these cardiac reactions. ( 5.6 ) Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis: Clozapine is not approved for this condition. ( 5.7 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting Dose: 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. ( 2.3 ) Use cautious titration and divided dosage schedule. ( 2.3 , 5.3 ) Titration: increase the total daily dosage in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day, if well-tolerated. ( 2.3 ) Target dose: 300 mg to 450 mg per day, in divided doses, by the end of 2 weeks. ( 2.3 ) Subsequent increases: increase in increments of 100 mg or less, once or twice weekly. ( 2.3 ) Maximum daily dose: 900 mg ( 2.3 ) Tablets rapidly disintegrate after placement in the mouth and may be chewed if desired. No water is needed ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Required Laboratory Testing Prior to Initiation and During Therapy Prior to initiating treatment with clozapine orally disintegrating tablets, a baseline ANC must be obtained. The baseline ANC must be at least 1500/μL for the general population, and at least 1000/μL for patients with documented Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN). To continue treatment, the ANC must be monitored regularly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets should be immediately placed in the mouth after removing the tablet from the blister pack or bottle. The tablet disintegrates rapidly after placement in the mouth. The tablets can be allowed to disintegrate, or they may be chewed. They may be swallowed with saliva. No water is necessary for administration. The orally disintegrating tablets in a blister pack should be left in the unopened blister until the time of use. Just prior to use, peel the foil from the blister and gently remove the orally disintegrating tablet. Do not push the tablets through the foil, because this could damage the tablet. 2.3 Dosing Information The starting dose is 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. The total daily dose can be increased in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day, if well-tolerated, to achieve a target dose of 300 mg to 450 mg per day (administered in divided doses) by the end of 2 weeks. Subsequently, the dose can be increased once weekly or twice weekly, in increments of up to 100 mg. The maximum dose is 900 mg per day. To minimize the risk of orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope, it is necessary to use this low starting dose, gradual titration schedule, and divided dosages [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Clozapine orally disintegrating tablets can be taken with or without food [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Maintenance Treatment Generally, patients responding to clozapine orally disintegrating tablets should continue maintenance treatment on their effective dose beyond the acute episode. 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment Method of treatment discontinuation will vary depending on the patient’s last ANC: See Tables 2 or 3 for appropriate ANC monitoring based on the level of neutropenia if abrupt treatment discontinuation is necessary because of moderate to severe neutropenia. Reduce the dose gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks if termination of clozapine therapy is planned and there is no evidence of moderate to severe neutropenia. For abrupt clozapine discontinuation for a reason unrelated to neutropenia, continuation of the existing ANC monitoring is recommended for general population patients until their ANC is ≥1500/μL and for BEN patients until their ANC is ≥1000/μL or above their baseline. Additional ANC monitoring is required for any patient reporting onset of fever (temperature of 38.5°C or 101.3°F, or greater) during the 2 weeks after discontinuation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Monitor all patients carefully for the recurrence of psychotic symptoms and symptoms related to cholinergic rebound such as profuse sweating, headache, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. 2.6 Re-Initiation of Treatment When restarting clozapine orally disintegrating tablets in patients who have had even a brief interruption in treatment with clozapine orally disintegrating tablets, dosage must be reduced. This is necessary to minimize the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. If one day’s dosing has been missed, resume treatment at 40% to 50% of the established dose. If two days dosing has been missed, resume dosage at approximately 25% of the established dosage. For longer interruptions, re-initiate with a dosage of 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. If these dosages are well-tolerated, the dosage may be increased to the previous dosage more quickly than recommended for initial treatment. 2.7 Dosage Adjustments with Concomitant use of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP3A4 Inhibitors or CYP1A2, CYP3A4 Inducers Dose adjustments may be necessary in patients with concomitant use of: strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin, or enoxacin); moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., oral contraceptives, or caffeine); CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., cimetidine, escitalopram, erythromycin, paroxetine, bupropion, fluoxetine, quinidine, duloxetine, terbinafine, or sertraline); CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, St. John’s wort, and rifampin); or CYP1A2 inducers (e.g., tobacco smoking) (Table 1) [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Table 1: Dose Adjustment in Patients Taking Concomitant Medications Co-medications Scenarios Initiating clozapine orally disintegrating tablets while taking a co-medication Adding a co-medication while taking clozapine orally disintegrating tablets Discontinuing a co-medication while continuing clozapine orally disintegrating tablets Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Use one third of the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose. Increase clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose based on clinical response. Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors Monitor for adverse reactions. Consider reducing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose if necessary. Monitor for lack of effectiveness. Consider increasing clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose if necessary. CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant use is not recommended. However, if the inducer is necessary, it may be necessary to increase the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose. Monitor for decreased effectiveness. Reduce clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose based on clinical response. Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 Inducers Monitor for decreased effectiveness. Consider increasing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose if necessary. Monitor for adverse reactions. Consider reducing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose if necessary. 2.8 Renal or Hepatic Impairment or CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers It may be necessary to reduce the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose in patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment, or in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 )] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Severe Neutropenia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Orthostatic Hypotension, Bradycardia, and Syncope [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Falls [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Myocarditis and Cardiomyopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Gastrointestinal Hypomotility with Severe Complications [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Eosinophilia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] QT Interval Prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Metabolic Changes (Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus, Dyslipidemia, and Weight Gain) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Fever [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] Pulmonary Embolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] Anticholinergic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )] Tardive Dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.18 )] Patients with Phenylketonuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.19 )] Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.20 )] Recurrence of Psychosis and Cholinergic Rebound after Abrupt Discontinuation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.21 )] Most common adverse reactions (≥5%) were: CNS reactions (sedation, dizziness/vertigo, headache, and tremor); cardiovascular reactions (tachycardia, hypotension, and syncope); autonomic nervous system reactions (hypersalivation, sweating, dry mouth, and visual disturbances); gastrointestinal reactions (constipation and nausea); and fever. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The most commonly reported adverse reactions (≥5%) across clozapine clinical trials were: CNS reactions, including sedation, dizziness/vertigo, headache, and tremor; cardiovascular reactions, including tachycardia, hypotension, and syncope; autonomic nervous system reactions, including hypersalivation, sweating, dry mouth, and visual disturbances; gastrointestinal reactions, including constipation and nausea; and fever. Table 9 summarizes the most commonly reported adverse reactions (≥5%) in clozapine-treated patients (compared to chlorpromazine-treated patients) in the pivotal, 6-week, controlled trial in treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Table 9: Common Adverse Reactions (≥5%) in the 6-Week, Randomized, Chlorpromazine-Controlled Trial in Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia Clozapine Chlorpromazine Adverse Reaction (N=126) (N=142) (%) (%) Sedation 21 13 Tachycardia 17 11 Constipation 16 12 Dizziness 14 16 Hypotension 13 38 Fever (hyperthermia) 13 4 Hypersalivation 13 1 Hypertension 12 5 Headache 10 10 Nausea/vomiting 10 12 Dry mouth 5 20 Table 10 summarizes the adverse reactions reported in clozapine-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater across all clozapine studies (excluding the 2 year InterSePT™ Study). These rates are not adjusted for duration of exposure. Table 10: Adverse Reactions (≥2%) Reported in Clozapine-treated Patients (N=842) Across all Clozapine Studies (excluding the 2 year InterSePT™ Study) Body System Clozapine Adverse Reaction N=842 Percentage of Patients Central Nervous System Drowsiness/Sedation 39 Dizziness/Vertigo 19 Headache 7 Tremor 6 Syncope 6 Disturbed Sleep/Nightmares 4 Restlessness 4 Hypokinesia/Akinesia 4 Agitation 4 Seizures (convulsions) 3 † Rigidity 3 Akathisia 3 Confusion 3 Fatigue 2 Insomnia 2 Cardiovascular Tachycardia 25 † Hypotension 9 Hypertension 4 Gastrointestinal Constipation 14 Nausea 5 Abdominal Discomfort/Heartburn 4 Nausea/Vomiting 3 Vomiting 3 Diarrhea 2 Urogenital Urinary abnormalities 2 Autonomic Nervous System Salivation 31 Sweating 6 Dry mouth 6 Visual disturbances 5 Skin Rash 2 Hemic/Lymphatic Leukopenia/Decreased WBC/Neutropenia 3 Miscellaneous Fever 5 Weight Gain 4 † Rate based on population of approximately 1700 exposed during premarket clinical evaluation of clozapine. Table 11 summarizes the most commonly reported adverse reactions (≥10% of the clozapine or olanzapine group) in the InterSePT™ Study. This was an adequate and well-controlled, two-year study evaluating the efficacy of clozapine relative to olanzapine in reducing the risk of suicidal behavior in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. The rates are not adjusted for duration of exposure. Table 11: Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Patients Treated with Clozapine or Olanzapine in the InterSePT™ Study (≥10% in the clozapine or olanzapine group) Clozapine Olanzapine N=479 N=477 Adverse Reactions % Reporting % Reporting Salivary hypersecretion 48% 6% Somnolence 46% 25% Weight increased 31% 56% Dizziness (excluding vertigo) 27% 12% Constipation 25% 10% Insomnia 20% 33% Nausea 17% 10% Vomiting 17% 9% Dyspepsia 14% 8% Dystonia Class effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of clozapine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Central Nervous System Delirium, EEG abnormal, myoclonus, paresthesia, possible cataplexy, status epilepticus, obsessive compulsive symptoms, and post-discontinuation cholinergic rebound adverse reactions. Cardiovascular System Atrial or ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, QT interval prolongation, Torsades de Pointes, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, and periorbital edema. Endocrine System Pseudopheochromocytoma. Gastrointestinal System Acute pancreatitis, dysphagia, salivary gland swelling, megacolon, and intestinal ischemia, infarction, perforation, ulceration or necrosis. Hepatobiliary System Cholestasis, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic steatosis, hepatic necrosis, hepatic fibrosis, hepatic cirrhosis, liver injury (hepatic, cholestatic, and mixed), and liver failure. Immune System Disorders Angioedema, leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Urogenital System Acute interstitial nephritis, nocturnal enuresis, priapism, and renal failure. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions: photosensitivity, vasculitis, erythema multiforme, skin pigmentation disorder, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Musculoskeletal System and Connective Tissue Disorders Myasthenic syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Respiratory System Aspiration, pleural effusion, pneumonia, lower respiratory tract infection. Hemic and Lymphatic System Mild, moderate, or severe leukopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, WBC decreased, deep-vein thrombosis, elevated hemoglobin/hematocrit, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) increased, sepsis, thrombocytosis, and thrombocytopenia. Vision Disorders Narrow-angle glaucoma. Miscellaneous Creatine phosphokinase elevation, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, and weight loss.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors : Reduce clozapine dose to one third when coadministered with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin, enoxacin). ( 2.7 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers is not recommended. ( 2.7 , 7.1 ) Discontinuation of CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 Inducers : Consider reducing clozapine dose when CYP1A2 (e.g., tobacco smoke) or CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) are discontinued. ( 2.7 , 7.1 ) Anticholinergic drugs: Concomitant use may increase the risk for anticholinergic toxicity. ( 5.8 , 5.16 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Clozapine Clozapine is a substrate for many cytochrome P450 isozymes, in particular CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6. Use caution when administering clozapine orally disintegrating tablets concomitantly with drugs that are inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes. CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets and CYP1A2 inhibitors can increase plasma levels of clozapine, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. Reduce the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose to one third of the original dose when clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are coadministered with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin, or enoxacin). The clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose should be increased to the original dose when coadministration of strong CYP1A2 inhibitors is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors include oral contraceptives and caffeine. Monitor patients closely when clozapine orally disintegrating tablets are coadministered with these inhibitors. Consider reducing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dosage if necessary [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant treatment with clozapine orally disintegrating tablets and CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., cimetidine, escitalopram, erythromycin, paroxetine, bupropion, fluoxetine, quinidine, duloxetine, terbinafine, or sertraline) can increase clozapine levels and lead to adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Use caution and monitor patients closely when using such inhibitors. Consider reducing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant treatment with drugs that induce CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 can decrease the plasma concentration of clozapine, resulting in decreased effectiveness of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets. Tobacco smoke is a moderate inducer of CYP1A2. Strong CYP3A4 inducers include carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John’s wort, and rifampin. It may be necessary to increase the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dose if used concomitantly with inducers of these enzymes. However, concomitant use of clozapine orally disintegrating tablets and strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. Consider reducing the clozapine orally disintegrating tablets dosage when discontinuing coadministered enzyme inducers, because discontinuation of inducers can result in increased clozapine plasma levels and an increased risk of adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant treatment with clozapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity (e.g., benztropine, cyclobenzaprine, diphenhydramine) can increase the risk for anticholinergic toxicity and severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Avoid concomitant use of clozapine with anticholinergic drugs when possible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 , 5.16 )] . Drugs that Cause QT Interval Prolongation Use caution when administering concomitant medications that prolong the QT interval or inhibit the metabolism of clozapine. Drugs that cause QT prolongation include: specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, thioridazine, mesoridazine, droperidol, and pimozide), specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin), Class 1A antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol), and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 7.2 Potential for Clozapine to Affect Other Drugs Concomitant use of clozapine with other drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 can increase levels of these CYP2D6 substrates. Use caution when coadministering clozapine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6. It may be necessary to use lower doses of such drugs than usually prescribed. Such drugs include specific antidepressants, phenothiazines, carbamazepine, and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide, and encainide).

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Risk Summary There are no adequate or well-controlled studies of clozapine in pregnant women. Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 0.4 and 0.9 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 900 mg/day on a mg/m 2 body surface area basis. The studies revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to clozapine. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, clozapine orally disintegrating tablets should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Clinical Considerations Consider the risk of exacerbation of psychosis when discontinuing or changing treatment with antipsychotic medications during pregnancy and postpartum. Consider early screening for gestational diabetes for patients treated with antipsychotic medications [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Monitor neonates for symptoms of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, and feeding difficulties. The severity of complications can vary from self-limited symptoms to some neonates requiring intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Animal Data In embryofetal developmental studies, clozapine had no effects on maternal parameters, litter sizes, or fetal parameters when administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 0.4 and 0.9 times, respectively, the MRHD of 900 mg/day on a mg/m 2 body surface area basis. In peri/postnatal developmental studies, pregnant female rats were administered clozapine over the last third of pregnancy and until day 21 postpartum. Observations were made on fetuses at birth and during the postnatal period; the offspring were allowed to reach sexual maturity and mated. Clozapine caused a decrease in maternal body weight but had no effects on litter size or body weights of either F1or F2 generations at doses up to 0.4 times the MRHD of 900 mg/day on a mg/m 2 body surface area basis.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers Clozapine is present in human milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from clozapine, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use There have not been sufficient numbers of geriatric patients in clinical studies utilizing clozapine to determine whether those over 65 years of age differ from younger subjects in their response to clozapine. Orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia can occur with clozapine treatment [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Elderly patients, particularly those with compromised cardiovascular functioning, may be more susceptible to these effects. Elderly patients may be particularly susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of clozapine, such as urinary retention and constipation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Carefully select clozapine doses in elderly patients, taking into consideration their greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, as well as other concomitant disease and other drug therapy. Clinical experience suggests that the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia appears to be highest among the elderly; especially elderly women [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.18 )].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE 10.1 Overdosage Experience The most commonly reported signs and symptoms associated with clozapine overdose are: sedation, delirium, coma, tachycardia, hypotension, respiratory depression or failure; and hypersalivation. There are reports of aspiration pneumonia, cardiac arrhythmias, and seizure. Fatal overdoses have been reported with clozapine, generally at doses above 2500 mg. There have also been reports of patients recovering from overdoses well in excess of 4 g. 10.2 Management of Overdosage There are no specific antidotes for clozapine. Establish and maintain an airway; ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation. Monitor cardiac status and vital signs. Use general symptomatic and supportive measures. Consider the possibility of multiple-drug involvement. Contact a Certified Poison Control Center for the most up to date information on the management of overdosage (1-800-222-1222).

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia The efficacy of clozapine in treatment-resistant schizophrenia was established in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled (chlorpromazine) study in patients with a DSM-III diagnosis of schizophrenia who had inadequate responses to at least 3 different antipsychotics (from at least 2 different chemical classes) during the preceding 5 years. The antipsychotic trials must have been judged adequate; the antipsychotic dosages must have been equivalent to or greater than 1000 mg per day of chlorpromazine for a period of at least 6 weeks, each without significant reduction of symptoms. There must have been no period of good functioning within the preceding 5 years. Patients must have had a baseline score of at least 45 on the investigator-rated Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). On the 18-item BPRS, 1 indicates the absence of symptoms, and 7 indicates severe symptoms; the maximum potential total BPRS score is 126. At baseline, the mean BPRS score was 61. In addition, patients must have had a score of at least 4 on at least two of the following four individual BPRS items: conceptual disorganization, suspiciousness, hallucinatory behavior, and unusual thought content. Patients must have had a Clinical Global Impressions – Severity Scale score of at least 4 (moderately ill). In the prospective, lead-in phase of the trial, all patients (N=305) initially received single-blind treatment with haloperidol (the mean dose was 61 mg per day) for 6 weeks. More than 80% of patients completed the 6-week trial. Patients with an inadequate response to haloperidol (n=268) were randomized to double-blind treatment with clozapine (N=126) or chlorpromazine (N=142). The maximum daily clozapine dose was 900 mg; the mean daily dose was >600 mg. The maximum daily chlorpromazine dose was 1800 mg; the mean daily dose was >1200 mg. The primary endpoint was treatment response, predefined as a decrease in BPRS score of at least 20% and either (1) a CGI-S score of ≤3 (mildly ill), or (2) a BPRS score of ≤35, at the end of 6 weeks of treatment. Approximately 88% of patients from the clozapine and chlorpromazine groups completed the 6-week trial. At the end of six weeks, 30% of the clozapine group responded to treatment, and 4% of the chlorpromazine group responded to treatment. The difference was statistically significant (p<0.001). The mean change in total BPRS score was -16 and -5 in the clozapine and chlorpromazine group, respectively; the mean change in the 4 key BPRS item scores was -5 and -2 in the clozapine and chlorpromazine group, respectively; and the mean change in CGI-S score was -1.2 and -0.4, in the clozapine and chlorpromazine group, respectively. These changes in the clozapine group were statistically significantly greater than in the chlorpromazine group (p<0.001 in each analysis). 14.2 Recurrent Suicidal Behavior in Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective Disorder The effectiveness of clozapine in reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior was assessed in the International Suicide Prevention Trial (InterSePT ™ , a trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation). This was a prospective, randomized, open-label, active-controlled, multicenter, international, parallel-group comparison of clozapine (Clozaril ® ) versus olanzapine (Zyprexa ® , a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company) in 956 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (DSM-IV) who were judged to be at risk for recurrent suicidal behavior. Only about one-fourth of these patients (27%) were considered resistant to standard antipsychotic drug treatment. To enter the trial, patients must have met one of the following criteria: They had attempted suicide within the three years prior to their baseline evaluation. They had been hospitalized to prevent a suicide attempt within the three years prior to their baseline evaluation. They demonstrated moderate-to-severe suicidal ideation with a depressive component within one week prior to their baseline evaluation. They demonstrated moderate-to-severe suicidal ideation accompanied by command hallucinations to do self-harm within one week prior to their baseline evaluation. Dosing regimens for each treatment group were determined by individual investigators and were individualized by patient. Dosing was flexible, with a dose range of 200 to 900 mg/day for clozapine and 5 to 20 mg/day for olanzapine. For the 956 patients who received clozapine or olanzapine in this study, there was extensive use of concomitant psychotropics: 84% with antipsychotics, 65% with anxiolytics, 53% with antidepressants, and 28% with mood stabilizers. There was significantly greater use of concomitant psychotropic medications among the patients in the olanzapine group. The primary efficacy measure was time to (1) a significant suicide attempt, including a completed suicide; (2) hospitalization due to imminent suicide risk, including increased level of surveillance for suicidality for patients already hospitalized; or (3) worsening of suicidality severity as demonstrated by “much worsening” or “very much worsening” from baseline in the Clinical Global Impression of Severity of Suicidality as assessed by the Blinded Psychiatrist (CGI-SS-BP) scale. A determination of whether or not a reported event met criterion 1 or 2 above was made by the Suicide Monitoring Board (SMB), a group of experts blinded to patient data. A total of 980 patients were randomized to the study and 956 received study medication. Sixty-two percent of the patients were diagnosed with schizophrenia, and the remainder (38%) were diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder. Only about one-fourth of the total patient population (27%) was identified as “treatment-resistant” at baseline. There were more males than females in the study (61% of all patients were male). The mean age of patients entering the study was 37 years of age (range 18 to 69). Most patients were Caucasian (71%), 15% were Black, 1% were Asian, and 13% were classified as being of “other” races. Patients treated with clozapine had a statistically significant longer delay in the time to recurrent suicidal behavior in comparison with olanzapine. This result should be interpreted only as evidence of the effectiveness of clozapine in delaying time to recurrent suicidal behavior and not a demonstration of the superior efficacy of clozapine over olanzapine. The probability of experiencing (1) a significant suicide attempt, including a completed suicide, or (2) hospitalization because of imminent suicide risk, including increased level of surveillance for suicidality for patients already hospitalized, was lower for clozapine patients than for olanzapine patients at Week 104: clozapine 24% versus olanzapine 32%; 95% CI of the difference: 2%, 14% (Figure 1). Figure 1. Cumulative Probability of a Significant Suicide Attempt or Hospitalization to Prevent Suicide in Patients with Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective Disorder at High Risk of Suicidality figure 2

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling Store Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Keep in a sealed blister until time of use. This unit-dose package is non child-resistant. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets must remain in the original package until used by the patient. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure (as required). Drug dispensing should not ordinarily exceed a weekly supply. If a patient is eligible for ANC testing every 2 weeks, then a 2-week supply of Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets can be dispensed. If a patient is eligible for ANC testing every 4 weeks, then a 4-week supply of Clozapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets can be dispensed. Dispensing should be contingent upon the ANC testing results.

SPL TEXT:
Clozapine Clozapine CLOZAPINE CLOZAPINE ASPARTAME SILICON DIOXIDE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) MAGNESIUM STEARATE MANNITOL CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE SODIUM STEARYL FUMARATE XYLITOL I1 Clozapine Clozapine CLOZAPINE CLOZAPINE ASPARTAME SILICON DIOXIDE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) MAGNESIUM STEARATE MANNITOL CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE SODIUM STEARYL FUMARATE XYLITOL L1