DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

ACTIVE INGREDIENT:
Active ingredient (in each spray) Fluticasone propionate (glucocorticoid) 50 mcg

INACTIVE INGREDIENTS:
Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride, dextrose, microcrystalline cellulose, phenylethyl alcohol, polysorbate 80, purified water, sodium carboxymethylcellulose

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: nasal congestion runny nose sneezing itchy nose itchy, watery eyes

WARNINGS:
Warnings Only for use in the nose. Do not spray into your eyes or mouth. Do not use in children under 4 years of age to treat asthma if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking medicine for HIV infection (such as ritonavir) a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash ketoconazole pills (medicine for fungal infection) When using this product the growth rate of some children may be slower stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chicken pox, measles or tuberculosis your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. You may have something more than allergies, such as an infection. you get a constant whistling sound from your nose. This may be a sign of damage inside your nose. you get an allergic reaction to this product. Seek medical help right away. you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).

DO NOT USE:
Do not use in children under 4 years of age to treat asthma if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients

ASK A DOCTOR BEFORE USE:
Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Directions read the Quick Start Guide for how to: prime the bottle use the spray clean the spray nozzle shake gently before each use use this product only once a day do not use more than directed

STOP USE IF:
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chicken pox, measles or tuberculosis your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. You may have something more than allergies, such as an infection. you get a constant whistling sound from your nose. This may be a sign of damage inside your nose. you get an allergic reaction to this product. Seek medical help right away. you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product you have severe or frequent nosebleeds

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Other information you may start to feel relief the first day and full effect after several days of regular, once-a-day use store between 4 o and 30 o C (39 o and 86 o F) keep this package and enclosed materials. They contain important additional information.

SPL TEXT:
RUGBY FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE NASAL Fluticasone propionate BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE DEXTROSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE PHENYLETHYL ALCOHOL POLYSORBATE 80 WATER CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM, UNSPECIFIED FORM FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE FLUTICASONE off-white