DRUG NAME: Clonidine Hydrochloride
GENERIC NAME: CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE
MANUFACTURER: Actavis Pharma, Inc.
ROUTE: ORAL

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release is a centrally acting alpha 2 -adrenergic agonist available as 0.1 mg extended-release tablets for oral administration. Each 0.1 mg tablet is equivalent to 0.087 mg of the free base. The inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, red iron oxide, sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide. The formulation is designed to delay the absorption of active drug in order to decrease peak to trough plasma concentration differences. Clonidine hydrochloride, USP is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound. The chemical name is 2-(2,6-dichlorophenylamino)-­2-imidazoline hydrochloride. The following is the structural formula: Clonidine hydrochloride, USP is an odorless, bitter, white, crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol. Product meets Dissolution Test 4. bceb3bbb-figure-03

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Clonidine stimulates alpha 2 -adrenergic receptors in the brain. Clonidine is not a central nervous system stimulant. The mechanism of action of clonidine in ADHD is not known. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Clonidine is a known antihypertensive agent. By stimulating alpha 2 -adrenergic receptors in the brain stem, clonidine reduces sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and decreases peripheral resistance, renal vascular resistance, heart rate, and blood pressure. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Single-dose Pharmacokinetics in Adults Immediate-release clonidine hydrochloride and clonidine hydrochloride extended-release have different pharmacokinetic characteristics; dose substitution on a milligram for milligram basis will result in differences in exposure. A comparison across studies suggests that the C max is 50% lower for clonidine hydrochloride extended-release compared to immediate-release clonidine hydrochloride. Following oral administration of an immediate release formulation, plasma clonidine concentration peaks in approximately 3 to 5 hours and the plasma half-life ranges from 12 to 16 hours. The half-life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function. Following oral administration about 40% to 60% of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours. About 50% of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver. Although studies of the effect of renal impairment and studies of clonidine excretion have not been performed with clonidine hydrochloride extended-release, results are likely to be similar to those of the immediate release formulation. The pharmacokinetic profile of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet administration was evaluated in an open-label, three-period, randomized, crossover study of 15 healthy adult subjects who received three single-dose regimens of clonidine: 0.1 mg of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets under fasted conditions, 0.1 mg of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets following a high fat meal, and 0.1 mg of clonidine hydrochloride immediate-release under fasted conditions. Treatments were separated by one-week washout periods. Mean concentration-time data from the 3 treatments are shown in Table 7 and Figure 1. After administration of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, maximum clonidine concentrations were approximately 50% of the clonidine hydrochloride immediate-release maximum concentrations and occurred approximately 5 hours later relative to clonidine hydrochloride immediate-release. Similar elimination half-lives were observed and total systemic bioavailability following clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets was approximately 89% of that following clonidine hydrochloride immediate-release. Food had no effect on plasma concentrations, bioavailability, or elimination half-life. Table 7 Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Clonidine in Healthy Adult Volunteers Clonidine Hydrochloride Immediate-Release-Fasted Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release-Fed Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release -Fasted n=15 n=15 n=14 Parameter Mean SD Mean SD MEAN SD C max (pg/mL) 443 59.6 235 34.7 258 33.3 AUC inf 7313 1812 6505 1728 6729 1650 (hr*pg/mL) hT max (hr) 2.07 0.5 6.80 3.61 6.50 1.23 T 1/2 (hr) 12.57 3.11 12.67 3.76 12.65 3.56 Figure 1: Mean Clonidine Concentration-Time Profiles after Single Dose Administration Multiple-dose Pharmacokinetics in Children and Adolescents Plasma clonidine concentrations in children and adolescents (0.1 mg bid and 0.2 mg bid) with ADHD are greater than those of adults with hypertension with children and adolescents receiving higher doses on a mg/kg basis. Body weight normalized clearance (CL/F) in children and adolescents was higher than CL/F observed in adults with hypertension. Clonidine concentrations in plasma increased with increases in dose over the dose range of 0.2 to 0.4 mg/day. Clonidine CL/F was independent of dose administered over the 0.2 to 0.4 mg/day dose range. Clonidine CL/F appeared to decrease slightly with increases in age over the range of 6 to 17 years, and females had a 23% lower CL/F than males. The incidence of "sedation-like" AEs (somnolence and fatigue) appeared to be independent of clonidine dose or concentration within the studied dose range in the titration study. Results from the add-on study showed that clonidine CL/F was 11% higher in patients who were receiving methylphenidate and 44% lower in those receiving amphetamine compared to subjects not on adjunctive therapy. Figure 1: Mean Clonidine Concentration-Time Profiles after Single Dose Administration

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are a centrally acting alpha 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine. Reactions have included generalized rash, urticaria, and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . History of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine. Reactions have included generalized rash, urticaria, angioedema. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Start with one 0.1 mg tablet at bedtime for one week. Increase daily dosage in increments of 0.1 mg/day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved. Take twice a day, with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime, as depicted below ( 2.2 ) Total Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0.1 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.1 mg 0.3 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg 0.4 mg/day 0.2 mg 0.2 mg Do not crush, chew or break tablet before swallowing. ( 2.1 ) Do not substitute for other clonidine products on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles. ( 2.1 ) When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 0.1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Clonidine hydrochloride is an extended-release tablet to be taken orally with or without food. Swallow tablets whole. Do not crush, chew, or break tablets because this will increase the rate of clonidine release. Due to the lack of controlled clinical trial data and differing pharmacokinetic profiles, substitution of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets for other clonidine products on a mg-per-mg basis is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.2 Dose Selection The dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets administered either as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant, should be individualized according to the therapeutic needs and response of the patient. Dosing should be initiated with one 0.1 mg tablet at bedtime, and the daily dosage should be adjusted in increments of 0.1 mg/day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved. Doses should be taken twice a day, with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime (see Table 1). Table 1 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Dosing Guidance Total Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0.1 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.1 mg 0.3 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg 0.4 mg/day 0.2 mg 0.2 mg Doses of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets higher than 0.4 mg/day (0.2 mg twice daily) were not evaluated in clinical trials for ADHD and are not recommended. When a clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet is being added-on to a psychostimulant, the dose of the psychostimulant can be adjusted depending on the patient's response to clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. 2.3 Discontinuation When discontinuing clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the total daily dose should be tapered in decrements of no more than 0.1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.4 Missed Doses If patients miss a dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, they should skip that dose and take the next dose as scheduled. Do not take more than the prescribed total daily amount of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in any 24-hour period.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail elsewhere in labeling: Hypotension/bradycardia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Sedation and somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Rebound hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Allergic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence at least 5% and twice the rate of placebo) as monotherapy in ADHD: somnolence, fatigue, irritability, nightmare, insomnia, constipation, dry mouth. ( 6.1 ) Most common adverse reactions (incidence at least 5% and twice the rate of placebo) as adjunct therapy to psychostimulant in ADHD: somnolence, fatigue, decreased appetite, dizziness. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Two clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet ADHD clinical studies (Study 1, CLON-301 and Study 2, CLON-302) evaluated 256 patients in two 8-week placebo-controlled studies. A third clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet ADHD clinical study (Study 3, SHN-KAP-401) evaluated 135 children and adolescents in a 40- week placebo-controlled randomized-withdrawal study. Study 1: Fixed-dose Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Monotherapy Study 1 (CLON-301) was a short-term, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of two fixed doses (0.2 mg/day or 0.4 mg/day) of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in children and adolescents (6 to 17 years of age) who met DSM-IV criteria for ADHD hyperactive or combined inattentive/hyperactive subtypes. Most Common Adverse Reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 5% and at least twice the rate of placebo): somnolence, fatigue, irritability, insomnia, nightmare, constipation, dry mouth. Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation of Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets – Five patients (7%) in the low dose group (0.2 mg), 15 patients (20%) in the high dose group (0.4 mg), and 1 patient in the placebo group (1%) reported adverse reactions that led to discontinuation. The most common adverse reactions that led to discontinuation were somnolence and fatigue. Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 2% in either active treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo) during the treatment period are listed in Table 2. Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 2% in either active treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo) during the taper period are listed in Table 3. Table 2 Common Adverse Reactions in the Fixed-Dose Monotherapy Trial - Treatment Period (Study 1) Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets 0.2 mg/day 0.4 mg/day Placebo Preferred Term N=76 N=78 (N=76) PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Somnolence* 38% 31% 4% Nightmare 4% 9% 0% Emotional Disorder 4% 4% 1% Aggression 3% 1% 0% Tearfulness 1% 3% 0% Enuresis 0% 4% 0% Sleep Terror 3% 0% 0% Poor Quality Sleep 0% 3% 1% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 20% 13% 16% Insomnia 5% 6% 1% Tremor 1% 4% 0% Abnormal Sleep-Related Event 3% 1% 0% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Upper Abdominal Pain 15% 10% 12% Nausea 4% 5% 3% Constipation 1% 6% 0% Dry Mouth 0% 5% 1% GENERAL DISORDERS Fatigue† 16% 13% 1% Irritability 9% 5% 4% CARDIAC DISORDERS Dizziness 7% 3% 5% Bradycardia 0% 4% 0% INVESTIGATIONS Increased Heart Rate 0% 3% 0% METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Decreased Appetite 3% 4% 4% * Somnolence includes the terms "somnolence" and "sedation". † Fatigue includes the terms "fatigue" and "lethargy". Table 3 Common Adverse Reactions in the Fixed-Dose Monotherapy Trial - Taper Period* (Study 1) Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets 0.2 mg/day 0.4 mg/day Placebo Preferred Term N=76 N=78 (N=76) Abdominal Pain Upper 0% 6% 3% Headache 5% 2% 3% Gastrointestinal Viral 0% 5% 0% Somnolence 2% 3% 0% Heart Rate Increased 0% 3% 0% Otitis Media Acute 3% 0% 0% * Taper Period: 0.2 mg dose, week 8; 0.4 mg dose, weeks 6 to 8; Placebo dose, weeks 6 to 8 Study 2: Flexible-dose Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets as Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulants Study 2 (CLON-302) was a short-term, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of a flexible dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant in children and adolescents (6 to 17 years) who met DSM-IV criteria for ADHD hyperactive or combined inattentive/hyperactive subtypes during which clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets were initiated at 0.1 mg/day and titrated up to 0.4 mg/day over a 3-week period. Most clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet treated patients (75.5%) were escalated to the maximum dose of 0.4 mg/day. Most Common Adverse Reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 5% and at least twice the rate of placebo): somnolence, fatigue, decreased appetite, dizziness. Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation – There was one patient in the CLON+STM group (1%) who discontinued because of an adverse event (severe bradyphrenia, with severe fatigue). Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 2% in the treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo) during the treatment period are listed in Table 4. Table 4 Common Adverse Reactions in the Flexible-Dose Adjunctive to Stimulant Therapy Trial - Treatment Period (Study 2) Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets +STM PBO+STM Preferred Term (N=102) (N=96) PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Somnolence* 19% 7% Aggression 2% 1% Affect Lability 2% 1% Emotional Disorder 2% 0% GENERAL DISORDERS Fatigue † 14% 4% Irritability 2% 7% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 7% 12% Insomnia 4% 3% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Upper Abdominal Pain 7% 4% RESPIRATORY DISORDERS Nasal Congestion 2% 2% METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Decreased Appetite 6% 3% CARDIAC DISORDERS Dizziness 5% 1% * Somnolence includes the terms: "somnolence" and "sedation". † Fatigue includes the terms "fatigue" and "lethargy". Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence of greater than or equal to 2% in the treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo) during the taper period are listed in Table 5. Table 5 Common Adverse Reactions in the Flexible-Dose Adjunctive to Stimulant Therapy Trial - Taper Period* (Study 2) Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Preferred Term Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets +STM (N=102) PBO+STM (N=96) Nasal Congestion 4% 2% Headache 3% 1% Irritability 3% 2% Throat Pain 3% 1% Gastroenteritis Viral 2% 0% Rash 2% 0% * Taper Period: weeks 6 to 8 Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Thirteen percent (13%) of patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets discontinued from the pediatric monotherapy study due to adverse events, compared to 1% in the placebo group. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets monotherapy treated patients were from somnolence/sedation (5%) and fatigue (4%). Effect on Blood Pressure and Heart Rate In patients that completed 5 weeks of treatment in a controlled, fixed-dose monotherapy study in pediatric patients, during the treatment period the maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in systolic blood pressure was -4.0 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -8.8 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. The maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in diastolic blood pressure was -4.0 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -7.3 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. The maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in heart rate was -4.0 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -7.7 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. During the taper period of the fixed-dose monotherapy study the maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in systolic blood pressure was +3.4 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -5.6 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. The maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in diastolic blood pressure was +3.3 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -5.4 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. The maximum placebo-subtracted mean change in heart rate was -0.6 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.2 mg/day and -3.0 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events exclude those already mentioned in 6.1: Psychiatric: hallucinations Cardiovascular: Q-T prolongation

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following have been reported with other oral immediate release formulations of clonidine: Table 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Tricyclic antidepressants Increase blood pressure and may counteract clonidine’s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed Antihypertensive drugs Potentiate clonidine’s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed CNS depressants Potentiate sedating effects Avoid use Drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers, beta blockers) Potentiate bradycardia and risk of AV block Avoid use Sedating Drugs: Clonidine may potentiate the CNS-depressive effects of alcohol, barbiturates or other sedating drugs. ( 7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants: May reduce the hypotensive effect of clonidine. ( 7 ) Drugs Known to Affect Sinus Node Function or AV Nodal Conduction: Caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers and beta-blockers) due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block. ( 7 ) Antihypertensive drugs: Use caution when coadministered with clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. ( 7 )

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Clonidine overdose: hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension, bradycardia, respiratory depression, hypothermia, drowsiness, decreased or absent reflexes, weakness, irritability and miosis. The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults. Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias, apnea, coma and seizures. Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure. Treatment Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) for up-to-date guidance and advice.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in the treatment of ADHD was established in children and adolescents (6 to 17 years) in: One short-term, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial (Study 1) One short-term adjunctive therapy to psychostimulants trial (Study 2) One randomized withdrawal trial as monotherapy (Study 3) Short-term Monotherapy and Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulant Studies for ADHD The efficacy of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in the treatment of ADHD was established in 2 (one monotherapy and one adjunctive therapy) placebo-controlled trials in pediatric patients aged 6 to 17, who met DSM-IV criteria of ADHD hyperactive or combined hyperactive/inattentive subtypes. Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated using the investigator administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale-IV-Parent Version (ADHDRS-IV) total score including hyperactive/impulsivity and inattentive subscales. Study 1 (CLON-301), was an 8-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose study of children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 (N=236) with a 5-week primary efficacy endpoint. Patients were randomly assigned to one of the following three treatment groups: clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets (CLON) 0.2 mg/day (N=78), clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets 0.4 mg/day (N=80), or placebo (N=78). Dosing for the clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets groups started at 0.1 mg/day and was titrated in increments of 0.1 mg/week to their respective dose (as divided doses). Patients were maintained at their dose for a minimum of 2 weeks before being gradually tapered down to 0.1 mg/day at the last week of treatment. At both doses, improvements in ADHD symptoms were statistically significantly superior in clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients at the end of 5 weeks as measured by the ADHDRS-IV total score (Table 8). Study 2 (CLON-302) was an 8-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible dose study in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 (N=198) with a 5-week primary efficacy end point. Patients had been treated with a psychostimulant (methylphenidate or amphetamine) for four weeks with inadequate response. Patients were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets adjunct to a psychostimulant (N=102) or psychostimulant alone (N=96). The clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet dose was initiated at 0.1 mg/day and doses were titrated in increments of 0.1 mg/week up to 0.4 mg/day, as divided doses, over a 3-week period based on tolerability and clinical response. The dose was maintained for a minimum of 2 weeks before being gradually tapered to 0.1 mg/day at the last week of treatment. ADHD symptoms were statistically significantly improved in clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets plus stimulant group compared with the stimulant alone group at the end of 5 weeks as measured by the ADHDRS-IV total score (Table 8). Table 8 Short-Term Trials Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure: ADHDRS-IV Total Score Mean Baseline Score LS Mean Change from Placebo-subtracted (SD) Baseline (SE) Difference a (95% CI) Study 1 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (0.2 mg/day) 43.8 (7.47) -15.0 (1.38) -8.5 (-12.2, -4.8) Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (0.4 mg/day) 44.6 (7.73) -15.6 (1.33) -9.1 (-12.8, -5.5) Placebo 45.0 (8.53) -6.5 (1.35) -­- Study 2 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (0.4 mg/day) + Psychostimulant 38.9 (6.95) -15.8 (1.18) -4.5 (-7.8, -1.1) Psychostimulant alone 39.0 (7.68) -11.3 (1.24) -­- SD: standard deviation; SE: standard error; LS Mean: least-squares mean; CI: unadjusted confidence interval. a Difference (drug minus placebo) in least-squares mean change from baseline. Maintenance Monotherapy for ADHD Study 3 (SHN-KAP-401), was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized-withdrawal study in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years (n=253) with DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of ADHD. The study consisted of a 10-week, open-label phase (4 weeks of dose optimization and 6 weeks of dose maintenance), a 26-week double-blind phase, and a 4-week taper-down and follow-up phase. All patients were initiated at 0.1 mg/day and increased at weekly intervals in increments of 0.1 mg/day until reaching personalized optimal dose (0.1, 0.2, 0.3 or 0.4 mg/day, as divided doses). Eligible patients had to demonstrate treatment response as defined by ≥30% reduction in ADHD-RS-IV total score and a Clinical Global Impression-Improvement score of 1 or 2 during the open label phase. Patients who sustained treatment response (n=135) until the end of the open label phase were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups, clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets (N=68) and Placebo (N=67), to evaluate the long-term efficacy of maintenance dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in the double-blind phase. The primary efficacy endpoint was the percentage of patients with treatment failure defined as a ≥30% increase(worsening) in ADHD-RS-IV total score and ≥2 points increase (worsening ) in Clinical Global Impression – Severity Scale in 2 consecutive visits or early termination for any reason. A total of 73 patients experienced treatment failure in the double-blind phase: 31 patients (45.6%) in the clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets group and 42 patients (62.7%) in the placebo group, with a statistically significant difference in the primary endpoint favoring clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets (Table 9). The cumulative proportion of patients with treatment failure over time during the double-blind phase is displayed in Figure 2. Table 9 Treatment Failure: Double-Blind Full Analysis Set (Study 3) Double-Blind Full Analysis Set Study 3 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Placebo Number of subjects 68 67 Number of treatment failures 31 (45.6%) 42 (62.7%) Basis of Treatment Failure Clinical criteria a,b 11 (16.2%) 9 (13.4%) Lack of efficacy c 1 (1.5%) 3 (4.5%) Withdrawal of informed assent/consent 4 (5.9%) 20 (29.9%) Other early termination 15 (22.1%) 10 (14.9%) ADHD-RS-IV = Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder-Rating Scale-4 th edition; CGI-S = Clinical Global Impression-Severity a At the same 2 consecutive visits a (1) 30% or greater reduction in ADHD-RS-IV, and (2) 2-point or more increase in CGI-S. b Two subjects (1 placebo and 1 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets) withdrew consent, but met the clinical criteria for treatment failure. c Three subjects (all placebo) discontinued the study due to treatment failure, but met only the criterion for ADHD-RS-IV. Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier Estimation of Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Treatment Failure (Study 3) figure 2

SPL TEXT:
Clonidine Hydrochloride Clonidine Hydrochloride CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE CLONIDINE SILICON DIOXIDE HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE (100 MPA.S AT 2%) HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE FERRIC OXIDE RED SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE 241