DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Next Choice One Dose TM contains 1.5 mg of a single active steroid ingredient, levonorgestrel [18,19-Dinorpregn-4-en-20-yn-3-one-13-ethyl-17-hydroxy-, (17α)-(-)-], a totally synthetic progestogen. The inactive ingredients present are colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, FD&C Yellow #6, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, povidone. Levonorgestrel has a molecular weight of 312.45, and the following structural and molecular formulas: chemical structure of levonorgestrel

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Emergency contraceptive pills are not effective if a woman is already pregnant. Levonorgestrel is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization (by altering tubal transport of sperm and/or ova). In addition, it may inhibit implantation (by altering the endometrium). It is not effective once the process of implantation has begun. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single dose administration of levonorgestrel 1.5 mg in 30 women under fasting conditions, maximum plasma concentrations of levonorgestrel of 19.1 ng/mL were reached at 1.7 hours. See Table 2. Table 2: Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values Following Single Dose Administration of Levonorgestrel Tablet 1.5 mg to 30 Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions Mean (± SD) C max AUC t AUC inf T max t 1/2 (ng/mL) (ng·hr/mL)* (ng·hr/mL)* (hr)** (hr) Levonorgestrel 19.1 (9.7) 294.8 (208.8) 307.5 (218.5) 1.7 (1.0 to 4.0) 27.5 (5.6) C max = maximum concentration AUC t = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to time of last determinable concentration AUC inf = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity T max = time to maximum concentration t 1/2 = elimination half life *N = 29 **median (range) Effect of Food: The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel absorption following single oral administration of levonorgestrel 1.5 mg has not been evaluated. Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1.8 L/kg. It is about 97.5 to 99% protein-bound, principally to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and, to a lesser extent, serum albumin. Metabolism Following absorption, levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β-OH position to form sulfate conjugates and, to a lesser extent, glucuronide conjugates in plasma. Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α, 5β-tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma, along with much smaller amounts of 3α, 5α-tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16βhydroxylevonorgestrel. Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates. Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several-fold, and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users. Excretion About 45% of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32% are excreted in feces, mostly as glucuronide conjugates. Specific Populations Pediatric This product is not intended for use in the premenarcheal population, and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population. Geriatric This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women, and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population. Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race. However, clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both levonorgestrel tablets and the Yuzpe regimen (another form of emergency contraception). There was a non-statistically significant increased rate of pregnancy among Chinese women in the levonorgestrel tablet trial. The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 )]. Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of levonorgestrel tablet. Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of levonorgestrel tablet. Drug-Drug Interactions No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel tablet [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 )].

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Emergency contraceptive pills are not effective if a woman is already pregnant. Levonorgestrel is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization (by altering tubal transport of sperm and/or ova). In addition, it may inhibit implantation (by altering the endometrium). It is not effective once the process of implantation has begun.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Next Choice One Dose TM is a progestin-only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. To obtain optimal efficacy, the tablet should be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours of intercourse. Next Choice One Dose TM is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years, and available over the counter for women 17 years and older. Next Choice One Dose TM is not indicated for routine use as a contraceptive. ( 1 ) Next Choice One Dose TM is a progestin-only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. Next Choice One Dose TM is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years, and available over the counter for women 17 years and older. Next Choice One Dose TM is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Next Choice One Dose TM is contraindicated for use in the case of known or suspected pregnancy. Known or suspected pregnancy. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take Next Choice One Dose TM tablet orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse. Next Choice One Dose TM tablet can be used at any time during the menstrual cycle. If vomiting occurs within two hours of taking the tablet, consideration should be given to repeating the dose. One tablet taken orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse. Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse. ( 2 )

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (≥10%) in clinical trials included heavier menstrual bleeding (31%), nausea (14%), lower abdominal pain (13%), fatigue (13%), headache (10%), and dizziness (10%) ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Watson Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Levonorgestrel tablet was studied in a randomized, double-blinded multicenter clinical trial. In this study, all women who had received at least one dose of study medication were included in the safety analysis: 1,379 women in the levonorgestrel tablet group (1 dose of 1.5 mg levonorgestrel), and 1,377 women in the levonorgestrel tablets group (2 doses of 0.75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart). The mean age of women given levonorgestrel tablet was 27 years. The racial demographic of those enrolled was 54% Chinese, 12% Other Asian or Black, and 34% were Caucasian in each treatment group. 1.6% of women in the levonorgestrel tablet group and 1.4% in levonorgestrel tablets group were lost to follow-up. The most common adverse events (>10%) in the clinical trial for women receiving levonorgestrel tablet included heavier menstrual bleeding (30.9%), nausea (13.7%), lower abdominal pain (13.3%), fatigue (13.3%), and headache (10.3%). Table 1 lists those adverse events that were reported in > 4% of levonorgestrel tablet users. Table 1: Adverse Events in > 4% of Women, by % Frequency Most Common Adverse Events (MedDRA) Levonorgestrel N=1359 (%) Heavier Menstrual Bleeding 30.9 Nausea 13.7 Lower abdominal pain 13.3 Fatigue 13.3 Headache 10.3 Dizziness 9.6 Breast tenderness 8.2 Delay of menses (> 7 days) 4.5 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of levonorgestrel tablets (2 doses of 0.75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain, Nausea, Vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Nervous System Disorders Dizziness, Headache Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea, Irregular Menstruation, Oligomenorrhea, Pelvic Pain

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins, and may decrease the effectiveness of progestin-only pills. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of progestin-only pills include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John’s wort topiramate Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of coadministration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with progestin-only pills or the potential for enzyme alterations. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, such as CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of progestin-only pills. ( 7 )

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Many studies have found no harmful effects on fetal development associated with long-term use of contraceptive doses of oral progestins. The few studies of infant growth and development that have been conducted with progestin-only pills have not demonstrated significant adverse effects.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers In general, no adverse effects of progestin-only pills have been found on breastfeeding performance or on the health, growth, or development of the infant. However, isolated post-marketing cases of decreased milk production have been reported. Small amounts of progestins pass into the breast milk of nursing mothers taking progestin-only pills for long-term contraception, resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of progestin-only pills for long-term contraception have been established in women of reproductive age. Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents less than 17 years and for users 17 years and older. Use of Next Choice One Dose TM emergency contraception before menarche is not indicated.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data on overdosage of levonorgestrel tablet, although the common adverse event of nausea and associated vomiting may be anticipated.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double-blind, randomized, multicenter, multinational study evaluated and compared the efficacy and safety of three different regimens for emergency contraception. Subjects were enrolled at 15 sites in 10 countries; the racial/ethnic characteristics of the study population overall were 54% Chinese, 34% Caucasian, and 12% Black or Asian (other than Chinese). 2,381 healthy women with a mean age of 27 years, who needed emergency contraception within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse were involved and randomly allocated into one of the two levonorgestrel groups. A single dose of 1.5 mg of levonorgestrel (levonorgestrel tablet) was administered to women allocated into group 1. Two doses of 0.75 mg levonorgestrel 12 hours apart (levonorgestrel tablets) were administered to women in group 2. In the levonorgestrel tablet group, 16 pregnancies occurred in 1,198 women and in the levonorgestrel tablets group, 20 pregnancies occurred in 1,183 women. The number of pregnancies expected in each group was calculated based on the timing of intercourse with regard to each woman’s menstrual cycle. Among women receiving levonorgestrel tablet, 84% of expected pregnancies were prevented and among those women taking levonorgestrel tablets, 79% of expected pregnancies were prevented. The expected pregnancy rate of 8% (with no contraceptive use) was reduced to approximately 1% with levonorgestrel tablet. Emergency contraceptives are not as effective as routine contraception since their failure rate, while low based on a single use, would accumulate over time with repeated use [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 )]. In the clinical study, bleeding disturbances were the most common adverse event reported after taking the levonorgestrel-containing regimens. More than half of the women had menses within two days of the expected time; however, 31% of women experienced change in their bleeding pattern during the study period; 4.5% of women had menses more than 7 days after the expected time.

SPL TEXT:
Levonorgestrel Next Choice One Dose LEVONORGESTREL LEVONORGESTREL LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE STARCH, CORN POVIDONE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE FD&C YELLOW NO. 6 peach WATSON;287