DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Meloxicam, an oxicam derivative, is a member of the enolic acid group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Each yellow meloxicam tablet contains 7.5 mg or 15 mg meloxicam for oral administration. Meloxicam is chemically designated as 4-hydroxy-2-methyl- N -(5-methyl-2-thiazolyl)- 2H -1,2-benzothiazine-3carboxamide-1,1-dioxide. The molecular weight is 351.4. Its empirical formula is C 14 H 13 N 3 O 4 S 2 and it has the following structural formula. Meloxicam is a pale yellow powder, practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble in acetone, soluble in dimethylformamide, very slightly soluble in ethanol (96 %) and in methanol. Meloxicam has an apparent partition coefficient (log P) app = 0.1 in n -octanol/buffer pH 7.4. Meloxicam has pKa values of 1.1 and 4.2. Each meloxicam tablet intended for oral administration contains 7.5 mg or 15 mg of meloxicam. In addition, each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone and sodium citrate dihydrate. structured product formula for meloxicam

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of meloxicam, like that of other NSAIDs, may be related to prostaglandin synthetase (cyclo-oxygenase) inhibition which is involved in the initial steps of the arachidonic acid cascade, resulting in the reduced formation of prostaglandins, thromboxanes and prostacylin. It is not completely understood how reduced synthesis of these compounds results in therapeutic efficacy. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Meloxicam exhibits anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic activities. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute bioavailability of meloxicam capsules was 89% following a single oral dose of 30 mg compared with 30 mg IV bolus injection. Following single intravenous doses, dose-proportional pharmacokinetics were shown in the range of 5 mg to 60 mg. After multiple oral doses the pharmacokinetics of meloxicam capsules were dose-proportional over the range of 7.5 mg to 15 mg. Mean C max was achieved within four to five hours after a 7.5 mg meloxicam tablet was taken under fasted conditions, indicating a prolonged drug absorption. With multiple dosing, steady-state concentrations were reached by Day 5. A second meloxicam concentration peak occurs around 12 to 14 hours post-dose suggesting biliary recycling. Table 3Single Dose and Steady-State Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Oral 7.5 mg and 15 mg Meloxicam (Mean and % CV) The parameter values in the table are from various studies Pharmacokinetic Parameters (% CV ) Steady State Single Dose Healthy male adults ( Fed ) not under high fat conditions Elderly males ( Fed ) Elderly females ( Fed ) Renal failure ( Fasted ) Hepatic insufficiency ( Fasted ) 7 . 5 mg Meloxicam tablets tablets 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules N 18 5 8 12 12 C m a x [µg/mL] 1.05 (20) 2.3 (59) 3.2 (24) 0.59 (36) 0.84 (29) t m a x [h] 4.9 (8) 5 (12) 6 (27) 4 (65) 10 (87) t ½ [h] 20.1 (29) 21 (34) 24 (34) 18 (46) 16 (29) CL/f {mL/min} 8.8 (29) 9.9 (76) 5.1 (22) 19 (43) 11 (44) V z f Vz/f =Dose/(AUC•K e l ) [L] 14.7(32) 15 (42) 10 (30) 26 (44) 14 (29) Food and Antacid Effects Administration of meloxicam capsules following a high fat breakfast (75 g of fat) resulted in mean peak drug levels (i.e., C max ) being increased by approximately 22% while the extent of absorption (AUC) was unchanged. The time to maximum concentration (T max ) was achieved between 5 and 6 hours. In comparison, neither the AUC nor the C max values for meloxicam suspension were affected following a similar high fat meal, while mean T max values were increased to approximately 7 hours. No pharmacokinetic interaction was detected with concomitant administration of antacids. Based on these results, meloxicam can be administered without regard to timing of meals or concomitant administration of antacids. Distribution The mean volume of distribution (Vss) of meloxicam is approximately 10 L. Meloxicam is ~99.4% bound to human plasma proteins (primarily albumin) within the therapeutic dose range. The fraction of protein binding is independent of drug concentration, over the clinically relevant concentration range, but decreases to ~99% in patients with renal disease. Meloxicam penetration into human red blood cells, after oral dosing, is less than 10%. Following a radiolabeled dose, over 90% of the radioactivity detected in the plasma was present as unchanged meloxicam. Meloxicam concentrations in synovial fluid, after a single oral dose, range from 40% to 50% of those in plasma. The free fraction in synovial fluid is 2.5 times higher than in plasma, due to the lower albumin content in synovial fluid as compared to plasma. The significance of this penetration is unknown. Metabolism Meloxicam is extensively metabolized in the liver. Meloxicam metabolites include 5'-carboxy meloxicam (60% of dose), from P-450 mediated metabolism formed by oxidation of an intermediate metabolite 5'-hydroxymethyl meloxicam which is also excreted to a lesser extent (9% of dose). In vitro studies indicate that CYP2C9 (cytochrome P450 metabolizing enzyme) plays an important role in this metabolic pathway with a minor contribution of the CYP3A4 isozyme. Patients’ peroxidase activity is probably responsible for the other two metabolites which account for 16% and 4% of the administered dose, respectively. All the four metabolites are not known to have any in vivo pharmacological activity. Excretion Meloxicam excretion is predominantly in the form of metabolites, and occurs to equal extents in the urine and feces. Only traces of the unchanged parent compound are excreted in the urine (0.2%) and feces (1.6%). The extent of the urinary excretion was confirmed for unlabeled multiple 7.5 mg doses: 0.5%, 6%, and 13% of the dose were found in urine in the form of meloxicam, and the 5'-hydroxymethyl and 5'-carboxy metabolites, respectively. There is significant biliary and/or enteral secretion of the drug. This was demonstrated when oral administration of cholestyramine following a single IV dose of meloxicam decreased the AUC of meloxicam by 50%. The mean elimination half-life (t 1/2 ) ranges from 15 hours to 20 hours. The elimination half-life is constant across dose levels indicating linear metabolism within the therapeutic dose range. Plasma clearance ranges from 7 to 9 mL/min. Special Populations Geriatric Elderly males (≥ 65 years of age) exhibited meloxicam plasma concentrations and steady-state pharmacokinetics similar to young males. Elderly females ( ≥ 65 years of age) had a 47% higher AUC ss and 32% higher C max,ss as compared to younger females (≤ 55 years of age) after body weight normalization. Despite the increased total concentrations in the elderly females, the adverse event profile was comparable for both elderly patient populations. A smaller free fraction was found in elderly female patients in comparison to elderly male patients. Gender Young females exhibited slightly lower plasma concentrations relative to young males. After single doses of 7.5 mg meloxicam, the mean elimination half-life was 19.5 hours for the female group as compared to 23.4 hours for the male group. At steady state, the data were similar (17.9 hours vs 21.4 hours). This pharmacokinetic difference due to gender is likely to be of little clinical importance. There was linearity of pharmacokinetics and no appreciable difference in the C max or T max across genders. Hepatic Impairment Following a single 15 mg dose of meloxicam there was no marked difference in plasma concentrations in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class I) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class II) hepatic impairment compared to healthy volunteers. Protein binding of meloxicam was not affected by hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class III) have not been adequately studied [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 )]. Renal Impairment Meloxicam pharmacokinetics have been investigated in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. Total drug plasma concentrations of meloxicam decreased and total clearance of meloxicam increased with the degree of renal impairment while free AUC values were similar in all groups. The higher meloxicam clearance in subjects with renal impairment may be due to increased fraction of unbound meloxicam which is available for hepatic metabolism and subsequent excretion. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Patients with severe renal impairment have not been adequately studied. The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 )]. Hemodialysis Following a single dose of meloxicam, the free C max plasma concentrations were higher in patients with renal failure on chronic hemodialysis (1% free fraction) in comparison to healthy volunteers (0.3% free fraction). Hemodialysis did not lower the total drug concentration in plasma; therefore, additional doses are not necessary after hemodialysis. Meloxicam is not dialyzable [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 )]. Drug Interactions Aspirin When meloxicam is administered with aspirin (1000 mg three times daily) to healthy volunteers, it tended to increase the AUC (10%) and C max (24%) of meloxicam. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.2 )]. Cholestyramine Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50%. This resulted in a decrease in t 1/2 , from 19.2 hours to 12.5 hours, and a 35% reduction in AUC. This suggests the existence of a recirculation pathway for meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract. The clinical relevance of this interaction has not been established. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of 200 mg cimetidine four times daily did not alter the single-dose pharmacokinetics of 30 mg meloxicam. Digoxin Meloxicam 15 mg once daily for 7 days did not alter the plasma concentration profile of digoxin after β-acetyldigoxin administration for 7 days at clinical doses. In vitro testing found no protein binding drug interaction between digoxin and meloxicam. Lithium In a study conducted in healthy subjects, mean pre-dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21% in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg QD every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.4 )]. Methotrexate A study in 13 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients evaluated the effects of multiple doses of meloxicam on the pharmacokinetics of methotrexate taken once weekly. Meloxicam did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of single doses of methotrexate. In vitro , methotrexate did not displace meloxicam from its human serum binding sites [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.5 )]. Warfarin The effect of meloxicam on the anticoagulant effect of warfarin was studied in a group of healthy subjects receiving daily doses of warfarin that produced an INR (International Normalized Ratio) between 1.2 and 1.8. In these subjects, meloxicam did not alter warfarin pharmacokinetics and the average anticoagulant effect of warfarin as determined by prothrombin time. However, one subject showed an increase in INR from 1.5 to 2.1. Caution should be used when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.7 )].

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of meloxicam, like that of other NSAIDs, may be related to prostaglandin synthetase (cyclo-oxygenase) inhibition which is involved in the initial steps of the arachidonic acid cascade, resulting in the reduced formation of prostaglandins, thromboxanes and prostacylin. It is not completely understood how reduced synthesis of these compounds results in therapeutic efficacy.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam Tablets are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )].

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam (4.1) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4.1 ) Use during the peri-operative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Allergic Reactions Meloxicam Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam. Meloxicam tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 , 5.13 )]. 4.2 Coronary Surgery Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )].

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR and GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS Cardiovascular Risk Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. This risk may increase with duration of use. Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. Meloxicam is contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4.2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. Gastrointestinal Risk NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )]. WARNING: CARDIOVASCULAR and GASTROINTESTINAL RISKS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning . Cardiovascular Risk NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. This risk may increase with duration of use. Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk. ( 5.1 ) Meloxicam is contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery ( 4.2 , 5.1 ) Gastrointestinal Risk NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events. ( 5.2 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual treatment goals for the individual patient. OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily 2.1 General Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )]. After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablets are 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 ), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 ) AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Meloxicam may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common (≥5% and greater than placebo) adverse events in adults are diarrhea, upper respiratory tract infections, dyspepsia, and influenza-like symptoms ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA) Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular thrombotic events [ see BOXED WARNINGS AND WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Gastrointestinal effects [ see BOXED WARNING AND WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] Hepatic effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] Hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] Congestive heart failure and edema [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.5 )] Renal effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )] Anaphylactoid reaction [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] Adverse skin reaction [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )] 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Adults Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The meloxicam Phase 2/3 clinical trial database includes 10,122 OA patients and 1012 RA patients treated with meloxicam 7.5 mg/day, 3,505 OA patients and 1351 RA patients treated with meloxicam 15 mg/day. Meloxicam at these doses was administered to 661 patients for at least 6 months and to 312 patients for at least one year. Approximately 10,500 of these patients were treated in ten placebo- and/or active-controlled osteoarthritis trials and 2363 of these patients were treated in ten placebo- and/or active-controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials. Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events were the most frequently reported adverse events in all treatment groups across meloxicam trials. A 12-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial was conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo and with an active control. Two 12-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized trials were conducted in patients with rheumatoid arthritis to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo. Table 1a depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥2% of the meloxicam treatment groups in a 12-week placebo- and active-controlled osteoarthritis trial. Table 1b depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥2% of the meloxicam treatment groups in two 12-week placebo- controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials. Table 1aAdverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of Meloxicam Patients in a 12-Week Osteoarthritis Placebo- and Active-Controlled Trial Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Diclofenac 100 mg daily 1 WHO preferred terms edema, edema dependent, edema peripheral and edema legs combined 2 WHO preferred terms rash, rash erythematous and rash maculo-papular combined No . of Patients 157 154 156 153 Gastrointestinal 17.2 20.1 17.3 28.1 Abdominal Pain 2.5 1.9 2.6 1.3 Diarrhea 3.8 7.8 3.2 9.2 Dyspepsia 4.5 4.5 4.5 6.5 Flatulence 4.5 3.2 3.2 3.9 Nausea 3.2 3.9 3.8 7.2 Body as a Whole Accident Household 1.9 4.5 3.2 2.6 Edema 1 2.5 1.9 4.5 3.3 Fall 0.6 2.6 0.0 1.3 Influenza-Like Symptoms 5.1 4.5 5.8 2.6 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 3.2 2.6 3.8 2.0 Headache 10.2 7.8 8.3 5.9 Respiratory Pharyngitis 1.3 0.6 3.2 1.3 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 1.9 3.2 1.9 3.3 Skin Rash 2 2.5 2.6 0.6 2.0 Table 1bAdverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of MELOXICAM Patients in two 12-Week Rheumatoid Arthritis Placebo Controlled Trials Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily 1 MedDRA high level term (preferred terms): dyspeptic signs and symptoms (dyspepsia, dyspepsia aggravated, eructation, gastrointestinal irritation), upper respiratory tract infections-pathogen unspecified (laryngitis NOS, pharyngitis NOS, sinusitis NOS), joint related signs and symptoms (arthralgia, arthralgia aggravated, joint crepitation, joint effusion, joint swelling) 2 MedDRA preferred term: nausea, abdominal pain NOS, influenza-like illness, headaches NOS, and rash NOS No . of Patients 469 481 477 Gastrointestinal disorders 14.1 18.9 16.8 Abdominal pain NOS 2 0.6 2.9 2.3 Dyspeptic signs and symptoms 1 3.8 5.8 4.0 Nausea 2 2.6 3.3 3.8 General disorders and administration site conditions Influenza like illness 2 2.1 2.9 2.3 Infection and infestations Upper respiratory tract infections-pathogen class unspecified 1 4.1 7.0 6.5 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Joint related signs and symptoms 1 1.9 1.5 2.3 Nervous system disorders Headaches NOS 2 6.4 6.4 5.5 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash NOS 2 1.7 1.0 2.1 The adverse events that occurred with meloxicam in ≥2% of patients treated short-term (4-6 weeks) and long-term (6 months) in active-controlled osteoarthritis trials are presented in Table 2 Table 2Adverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of Meloxicam Patients in 4 to 6 Weeksand 6 Month Active-Controlled Osteoarthritis Trials 4 - 6 Weeks Controlled Trials 6 Month Controlled Trials Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily No . of Patients 8955 256 169 306 Gastrointestinal 11.8 18.0 26.6 24.2 Abdominal Pain 2.7 2.3 4.7 2.9 Constipation 0.8 1.2 1.8 2.6 Diarrhea 1.9 2.7 5.9 2.6 Dyspepsia 3.8 7.4 8.9 9.5 Flatulence 0.5 0.4 3.0 2.6 Nausea 2.4 4.7 4.7 7.2 Vomiting 0.6 0.8 1.8 2.6 Body as a Whole Accident Household 0.0 0.0 0.6 2.9 Edema WHO preferred terms edema, edema dependent, edema peripheral, and edema legs combined 0.6 2.0 2.4 1.6 Pain 0.9 2.0 3.6 5.2 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 1.1 1.6 2.4 2.6 Headache 2.4 2.7 3.6 2.6 Hematologic Anemia 0.1 0.0 4.1 2.9 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 0.5 0.0 5.3 1.3 Back Pain 0.5 0.4 3.0 0.7 Psychiatric Insomnia 0.4 0.0 3.6 1.6 Respiratory Coughing 0.2 0.8 2.4 1.0 Upper Respiratory tract Infection 0.2 0.0 8.3 7.5 Skin Pruritus 0.4 1.2 2.4 0.0 Rash WHO preferred terms rash, rash erythematous, and rash maculo-papular combined 0.3 1.2 3.0 1.3 Urinary Micturition Frequency 0.1 0.4 2.4 1.3 Urinary Tract Infection 0.3 0.4 4.7 6.9 Higher doses of meloxicam (22.5 mg and greater) have been associated with an increased risk of serious GI events; therefore, the daily dose of meloxicam should not exceed 15 mg. The following is a list of adverse drug reactions occurring in <2% of patients receiving meloxicam in clinical trials involving approximately 16,200 patients. Body as a Whole allergic reaction, face edema, fatigue, fever, hot flushes, malaise, syncope, weight decrease, weight increase Cardiovascular angina pectoris, cardiac failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, vasculitis Central and Peripheral Nervous System convulsions, paresthesia, tremor, vertigo Gastrointestinal colitis, dry mouth, duodenal ulcer, eructation, esophagitis, gastric ulcer, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hematemesis, hemorrhagic duodenal ulcer, hemorrhagic gastric ulcer, intestinal perforation, melena, pancreatitis, perforated duodenal ulcer, perforated gastric ulcer, stomatitis ulcerative Heart Rate and Rhythm arrhythmia, palpitation, tachycardia Hematologic leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia Liver and Biliary System ALT increased, AST increased, bilirubinemia, GGT increased, hepatitis Metabolic and Nutritional dehydration Psychiatric abnormal dreaming , anxiety, appetite increased, confusion, depression, nervousness, somnolence Respiratory asthma, bronchospasm, dyspnea Skin and Appendages alopecia, angioedema, bullous eruption, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, sweating increased, urticaria Special Senses abnormal vision, conjunctivitis, taste perversion, tinnitus Urinary System albuminuria, BUN increased, creatinine increased, hematuria, renal failure 6.2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of meloxicam. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Decisions about whether to include an adverse event from spontaneous reports in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors: (1) seriousness of the event, (2) number of reports, or (3) strength of causal relationship to the drug. Adverse reactions reported in worldwide post marketing experience or the literature include: acute urinary retention; agranulocytosis; alterations in mood (such as mood elevation); anaphylactoid reactions including shock; erythema multiforme; exfoliative dermatitis; interstitial nephritis; jaundice; liver failure; Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of meloxicam and warfarin may result in increased risk of bleeding complications ( 7.7 ) Concomitant use of meloxicam and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effect including increased GI bleeding ( 7.2 ) Concomitant use with meloxicam increases lithium plasma levels ( 7.4 ) Concomitant use with NSAIDs may reduce the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors ( 7.1 ) See also Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ). 7.1 ACE-inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking meloxicam concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.2 Aspirin When meloxicam is administered with aspirin (1000 mg three times daily) to healthy volunteers, an increase the AUC (10%) and C max (24%) of meloxicam was noted. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs concomitant administration of meloxicam and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Concomitant administration of low-dose aspirin with meloxicam may result in an increased rate of GI ulceration or other complications, compared to use of meloxicam alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for aspirin for cardiovascular prophylaxis. 7.3 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. However, studies with furosemide agents and meloxicam have not demonstrated a reduction in natriuretic effect. Furosemide single and multiple dose pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are not affected by multiple doses of meloxicam. Nevertheless, during concomitant therapy with meloxicam, patients should be observed closely for signs of renal failure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )], as well as to ensure diuretic efficacy. 7.4 Lithium In a study conducted in healthy subjects, mean pre-dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21% in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by meloxicam. Closely monitor patients on lithium treatment for signs of lithium toxicity when meloxicam is introduced, adjusted, or withdrawn. 7.5 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Therefore, NSAIDs may reduce the elimination of methotrexate, thereby enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with methotrexate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Cyclosporine Meloxicam, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins, thereby altering the renal toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with meloxicam may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.7 Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Monitor anticoagulant activity, particularly in the first few days after initiating or changing meloxicam therapy in patients receiving warfarin or similar agents, since these patients are at an increased risk of bleeding than with the use of either drug alone. Use caution when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
5.9 Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation, avoid the use of meloxicam, because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 ) AND PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17.8 )].

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk; however, meloxicam was excreted in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations higher than those in plasma. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from meloxicam a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Use of this drug for a pediatric indication is protected by marketing exclusivity.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use As with any NSAID, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly (65 years and older). Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies, 5157 were age 65 and over (4044 in OA studies and 1113 in RA studies). No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE There is limited experience with meloxicam overdose. Four cases have taken 6 to 11 times the highest recommended dose; all recovered. Cholestyramine is known to accelerate the clearance of meloxicam. Symptoms following acute NSAID overdose include lethargy, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, and epigastric pain, which are generally reversible with supportive care. Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur. Severe poisoning may result in hypertension, acute renal failure, hepatic dysfunction, respiratory depression, coma, convulsions, cardiovascular collapse, and cardiac arrest. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs, and may occur following an overdose. Patients should be managed with symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose. Administration of activated charcoal is recommended for patients who present 1-2 hours after overdose. For substantial overdose or severely symptomatic patients, activated charcoal may be administered repeatedly. Accelerated removal of meloxicam by 4 gm oral doses of cholestyramine given three times a day was demonstrated in a clinical trial. Administration of cholestyramine may be useful following an overdose. Forced diuresis, alkalinization of urine, hemodialysis, or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding. For additional information about overdose treatment, call a poison control center (1-800-222-1222).

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee and hip was evaluated in a 12-week, double-blind, controlled trial. meloxicam (3.75 mg, 7.5 mg, and 15 mg daily) was compared to placebo. The four primary endpoints were investigator’s global assessment, patient global assessment, patient pain assessment, and total WOMAC score (a self-administered questionnaire addressing pain, function, and stiffness). Patients on meloxicam 7.5 mg daily and meloxicam 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in each of these endpoints compared with placebo. The use of meloxicam for the management of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis was evaluated in six double-blind, active-controlled trials outside the U.S. ranging from 4 weeks’ to 6 months’ duration. In these trials, the efficacy of meloxicam, in doses of 7.5 mg/day and 15 mg/day, was comparable to piroxicam 20 mg/day and diclofenac SR 100 mg/day and consistent with the efficacy seen in the U.S. trial. The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis was evaluated in a 12-week, double-blind, controlled multinational trial. meloxicam (7.5 mg, 15 mg, and 22.5 mg daily) was compared to placebo. The primary endpoint in this study was the ACR20 response rate, a composite measure of clinical, laboratory, and functional measures of RA response. Patients receiving meloxicam 7.5 mg and 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in the primary endpoint compared with placebo. No incremental benefit was observed with the 22.5 mg dose compared to the 15 mg dose.

SPL TEXT:
meloxicam meloxicam MELOXICAM MELOXICAM CROSPOVIDONE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE TRISODIUM CITRATE DIHYDRATE POVIDONE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE YELLOW ROUND ZC;26