DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
DESCRIPTION Risperidone is a psychotropic agent belonging to the chemical class of benzisoxazole derivatives. The chemical designation is 3-[2-[4-(6-Fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)piperidino]ethyl]-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-2-methyl-4 H -pyrido[1,2- a ]pyrimidin-4-one. Its molecular formula is C 23 H 27 FN 4 O 2 and its molecular weight is 410.49. The structural formula is: Risperidone, USP is a white or almost white powder. It is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in methylene chloride and soluble in methanol and 0.1 N HCl. Risperidone tablets, USP are available in 0.25 mg (white), 0.5 mg (beige), 1 mg (white), 2 mg (beige), 3 mg (white) and 4 mg (beige) strengths. Inactive ingredients are: colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, docusate sodium, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polydextrose, polyethylene glycol, sodium benzoate, sodium lauryl sulfate, titanium dioxide and triacetin. In addition, the 0.5 mg, 2 mg and 4 mg tablets contain FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake and FD&C Yellow No. 6 Aluminum Lake. MM1

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism of action of risperidone, as with other drugs used to treat schizophrenia, is unknown. However, it has been proposed that the drug's therapeutic activity in schizophrenia is mediated through a combination of dopamine Type 2 (D 2 ) and serotonin Type 2 (5HT 2 ) receptor antagonism. Risperidone is a selective monoaminergic antagonist with high affinity (Ki of 0.12 to 7.3 nM) for the serotonin Type 2 (5HT 2 ), dopamine Type 2 (D 2 ), α 1 and α 2 adrenergic, and H 1 histaminergic receptors. Risperidone acts as an antagonist at other receptors, but with lower potency. Risperidone has low to moderate affinity (Ki of 47 to 253 nM) for the serotonin 5HT 1C , 5HT 1D , and 5HT 1A receptors, weak affinity (Ki of 620 to 800 nM) for the dopamine D 1 and haloperidol-sensitive sigma site, and no affinity (when tested at concentrations > 10 -5 M) for cholinergic muscarinic or β 1 and β 2 adrenergic receptors. The clinical effect from risperidone results from the combined concentrations of risperidone and its major metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Antagonism at receptors other than D 2 and 5HT 2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1) ] may explain some of the other effects of risperidone. Risperidone is well absorbed. The absolute oral bioavailability of risperidone is 70% (CV = 25%). The relative oral bioavailability of risperidone from a tablet is 94% (CV = 10%) when compared to a solution. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that risperidone orally disintegrating tablets and risperidone oral solution are bioequivalent to risperidone tablets. Plasma concentrations of risperidone, its major metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, and risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone are dose proportional over the dosing range of 1 mg to 16 mg daily (0.5 mg to 8 mg twice daily). Following oral administration of solution or tablet, mean peak plasma concentrations of risperidone occurred at about one hour. Peak concentrations of 9-hydroxyrisperidone occurred at about 3 hours in extensive metabolizers, and 17 hours in poor metabolizers. Steady-state concentrations of risperidone are reached in one day in extensive metabolizers and would be expected to reach steady-state in about 5 days in poor metabolizers. Steady-state concentrations of 9-hydroxyrisperidone are reached in 5 to 6 days (measured in extensive metabolizers). Food does not affect either the rate or extent of absorption of risperidone. Thus, risperidone can be given with or without meals. Risperidone is rapidly distributed. The volume of distribution is 1 to 2 L/kg. In plasma, risperidone is bound to albumin and α 1 -acid glycoprotein. The plasma protein binding of risperidone is 90%, and that of its major metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, is 77%. Neither risperidone nor 9-hydroxyrisperidone displaces each other from plasma binding sites. High therapeutic concentrations of sulfamethazine (100 mcg/mL), warfarin (10 mcg/mL), and carbamazepine (10 mcg/mL) caused only a slight increase in the free fraction of risperidone at 10 ng/mL and 9-hydroxyrisperidone at 50 ng/mL, changes of unknown clinical significance. Risperidone is extensively metabolized in the liver. The main metabolic pathway is through hydroxylation of risperidone to 9-hydroxyrisperidone by the enzyme, CYP 2D6. A minor metabolic pathway is through N -dealkylation. The main metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, has similar pharmacological activity as risperidone. Consequently, the clinical effect of the drug results from the combined concentrations of risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone. CYP 2D6, also called debrisoquin hydroxylase, is the enzyme responsible for metabolism of many neuroleptics, antidepressants, antiarrhythmics, and other drugs. CYP 2D6 is subject to genetic polymorphism (about 6% to 8% of Caucasians, and a very low percentage of Asians, have little or no activity and are “poor metabolizers”) and to inhibition by a variety of substrates and some non-substrates, notably quinidine. Extensive CYP 2D6 metabolizers convert risperidone rapidly into 9-hydroxyrisperidone, whereas poor CYP 2D6 metabolizers convert it much more slowly. Although extensive metabolizers have lower risperidone and higher 9-hydroxyrisperidone concentrations than poor metabolizers, the pharmacokinetics of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined, after single and multiple doses, are similar in extensive and poor metabolizers. Risperidone could be subject to two kinds of drug-drug interactions. First, inhibitors of CYP 2D6 interfere with conversion of risperidone to 9-hydroxyrisperidone [see Drug Interactions (7.12) ] . This occurs with quinidine, giving essentially all recipients a risperidone pharmacokinetic profile typical of poor metabolizers. The therapeutic benefits and adverse effects of risperidone in patients receiving quinidine have not been evaluated, but observations in a modest number (n ≈ 70) of poor metabolizers given risperidone do not suggest important differences between poor and extensive metabolizers. Second, coadministration of known enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, and phenobarbital) with risperidone may cause a decrease in the combined plasma concentrations of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone [see Drug Interactions (7.11) ] . It would also be possible for risperidone to interfere with metabolism of other drugs metabolized by CYP 2D6. Relatively weak binding of risperidone to the enzyme suggests this is unlikely [see Drug Interactions 7.12) ] . Risperidone and its metabolites are eliminated via the urine and, to a much lesser extent, via the feces. As illustrated by a mass balance study of a single 1 mg oral dose of 14C-risperidone administered as solution to three healthy male volunteers, total recovery of radioactivity at one week was 84%, including 70% in the urine and 14% in the feces. The apparent half-life of risperidone was 3 hours (CV = 30%) in extensive metabolizers and 20 hours (CV = 40%) in poor metabolizers. The apparent half-life of 9-hydroxyrisperidone was about 21 hours (CV = 20%) in extensive metabolizers and 30 hours (CV = 25%) in poor metabolizers. The pharmacokinetics of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined, after single and multiple doses, were similar in extensive and poor metabolizers, with an overall mean elimination half-life of about 20 hours. In patients with moderate to severe renal disease, clearance of the sum of risperidone and its active metabolite decreased by 60% compared to young healthy subjects. Risperidone doses should be reduced in patients with renal disease [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] . While the pharmacokinetics of risperidone in subjects with liver disease were comparable to those in young healthy subjects, the mean free fraction of risperidone in plasma was increased by about 35% because of the diminished concentration of both albumin and α 1 -acid glycoprotein. Risperidone doses should be reduced in patients with liver disease [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. In healthy elderly subjects, renal clearance of both risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone was decreased, and elimination half-lives were prolonged compared to young healthy subjects. Dosing should be modified accordingly in the elderly patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . The pharmacokinetics of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone in children were similar to those in adults after correcting for the difference in body weight. No specific pharmacokinetic study was conducted to investigate race and gender effects, but a population pharmacokinetic analysis did not identify important differences in the disposition of risperidone due to gender (whether corrected for body weight or not) or race.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
INDICATIONS & USAGE Risperidone tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents aged 13 to 17 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Risperidone tablets are indicated for the short-term treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults and in children and adolescents aged 10 to 17 years [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The combination of risperidone tablets with lithium or valproate are indicated for the short-term treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in children and adolescents aged 5 to 16 years, including symptoms of aggression towards others, deliberate self-injuriousness, temper tantrums and quickly changing moods [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ].

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema, have been observed in patients treated with risperidone tablets. Therefore, risperidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the product.

BOXED WARNING:
Boxed Warning section Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Analyses of seventeen placebo-controlled trials (modal duration of 10 weeks), largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs, revealed a risk of death in drug-treated patients of between 1.6 to 1.7 times the risk of death in placebo-treated patients. Over the course of a typical 10-week controlled trial, the rate of death in drug-treated patients was about 4.5%, compared to a rate of about 2.6% in the placebo group. Although the causes of death were varied, most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. Observational studies suggest that, similar to atypical antipsychotic drugs, treatment with conventional antipsychotic drugs may increase mortality. The extent to which the findings of increased mortality in observational studies may be attributed to the antipsychotic drug as opposed to some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear. Risperidone is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ].

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Risperidone tablets can be administered once or twice daily. Initial dosing is generally 2 mg/day. Dose increases should then occur at intervals not less than 24 hours, in increments of 1 to 2 mg/day, as tolerated, to a recommended dose of 4 to 8 mg/day. In some patients, slower titration may be appropriate. Efficacy has been demonstrated in a range of 4 to 16 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . However, doses above 6 mg/day for twice daily dosing were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than lower doses, were associated with more extrapyramidal symptoms and other adverse effects, and are generally not recommended. In a single study supporting once daily dosing, the efficacy results were generally stronger for 8 mg than for 4 mg. The safety of doses above 16 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. While it is unknown how long a patient with schizophrenia should remain on risperidone tablets, the effectiveness of risperidone 2 mg/day to 8 mg/day at delaying relapse was demonstrated in a controlled trial in patients who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks and were then followed for a period of 1 to 2 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment with an appropriate dose. The dosage of risperidone tablets should be initiated at 0.5 mg once daily, administered as a single-daily dose in either the morning or evening. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should occur at intervals not less than 24 hours, in increments of 0.5 or 1 mg/day, as tolerated, to a recommended dose of 3 mg/day. Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of adolescent patients with schizophrenia at doses between 1 and 6 mg/day, no additional benefit was seen above 3 mg/day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Doses higher than 6 mg/day have not been studied. Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from administering half the daily dose twice daily. There are no controlled data to support the longer term use of risperidone tablets beyond 8 weeks in adolescents with schizophrenia. The physician who elects to use risperidone tablets for extended periods in adolescents with schizophrenia should periodically reevaluate the long-term risks and benefits of the drug for the individual patient. Although there are no data to specifically address reinitiation of treatment, it is recommended that after an interval off risperidone tablets, the initial titration schedule should be followed. There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching schizophrenic patients from other antipsychotics to risperidone tablets, or treating patients with concomitant antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some schizophrenic patients, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. The period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. When switching schizophrenic patients from depot antipsychotics, initiate risperidone tablet therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing EPS medication should be reevaluated periodically. Risperidone tablets should be administered on a once daily schedule, starting with 2 mg to 3 mg per day. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours and in dosage increments/decrements of 1 mg per day, as studied in the short-term, placebo-controlled trials. In these trials, short-term (3 week) anti-manic efficacy was demonstrated in a flexible dosage range of 1 mg to 6 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.3 )] . Risperidone tablet doses higher than 6 mg per day were not studied. The dosage of risperidone tablets should be initiated at 0.5 mg once daily, administered as a single-daily dose in either the morning or evening. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should occur at intervals not less than 24 hours, in increments of 0.5 or 1 mg/day, as tolerated, to a recommended dose of 2.5 mg/day. Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of pediatric patients with bipolar mania at doses between 0.5 and 6 mg/day, no additional benefit was seen above 2.5 mg/day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Doses higher than 6 mg/day have not been studied. Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from administering half the daily dose twice daily. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during treatment of an acute manic episode with risperidone tablets. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no systematically obtained data to support the use of risperidone tablets in such longer term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). The physician who elects to use risperidone tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term risks and benefits of the drug for the individual patient. The safety and effectiveness of risperidone in pediatric patients with autistic disorder less than 5 years of age have not been established. The dosage of risperidone tablets should be individualized according to the response and tolerability of the patient. The total daily dose of risperidone tablets can be administered once daily, or half the total daily dose can be administered twice daily. Dosing should be initiated at 0.25 mg per day for patients < 20 kg and 0.5 mg per day for patients ≥ 20 kg. After a minimum of 4 days from treatment initiation, the dose may be increased to the recommended dose of 0.5 mg per day for patients < 20 kg and 1 mg per day for patients ≥ 20 kg. This dose should be maintained for a minimum of 14 days. In patients not achieving sufficient clinical response, dose increases may be considered at ≥ 2-week intervals in increments of 0.25 mg per day for patients < 20 kg or 0.5 mg per day for patients ≥ 20 kg. Caution should be exercised with dosage for smaller children who weigh less than 15 kg. In clinical trials, 90% of patients who showed a response (based on at least 25% improvement on ABC-I, [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] ) received doses of risperidone tablets between 0.5 mg and 2.5 mg per day. The maximum daily dose of risperidone tablets in one of the pivotal trials, when the therapeutic effect reached plateau, was 1 mg in patients < 20 kg, 2.5 mg in patients ≥ 20 kg, or 3 mg in patients > 45 kg. No dosing data is available for children who weighed less than 15 kg. Once sufficient clinical response has been achieved and maintained, consideration should be given to gradually lowering the dose to achieve the optimal balance of efficacy and safety. The physician who elects to use risperidone tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term risks and benefits of the drug for the individual patient. Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from a once-daily dose administered at bedtime or administering half the daily dose twice daily, or a reduction of the dose. The recommended initial dose is 0.5 mg twice daily in patients who are elderly or debilitated, patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment, and patients either predisposed to hypotension or for whom hypotension would pose a risk. Dosage increases in these patients should be in increments of no more than 0.5 mg twice daily. Increases to dosages above 1.5 mg twice daily should generally occur at intervals of at least one week. In some patients, slower titration may be medically appropriate. Elderly or debilitated patients, and patients with renal impairment, may have less ability to eliminate risperidone than normal adults. Patients with impaired hepatic function may have increases in the free fraction of risperidone, possibly resulting in an enhanced effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions or for whom such reactions would pose a particular risk likewise need to be titrated cautiously and carefully monitored [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.7 , 5.17) ] . If a once daily dosing regimen in the elderly or debilitated patient is being considered, it is recommended that the patient be titrated on a twice daily regimen for 2 to 3 days at the target dose. Subsequent switches to a once daily dosing regimen can be done thereafter. Coadministration of carbamazepine and other enzyme inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, phenobarbital) with risperidone tablets would be expected to cause decreases in the plasma concentrations of the sum of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined, which could lead to decreased efficacy of risperidone treatment. The dose of risperidone tablets needs to be titrated accordingly for patients receiving these enzyme inducers, especially during initiation or discontinuation of therapy with these inducers [see Drug Interactions (7.11) ] . Fluoxetine and paroxetine have been shown to increase the plasma concentration of risperidone 2.5- to 2.8- fold and 3- to 9-fold, respectively. Fluoxetine did not affect the plasma concentration of 9-hydroxyrisperidone. Paroxetine lowered the concentration of 9-hydroxyrisperidone by about 10%. The dose of risperidone tablets needs to be titrated accordingly when fluoxetine or paroxetine is coadministered [see Drug Interactions (7.10) ] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Cerebrovascular Adverse Events, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Tardive Dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Metabolic Changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Orthostatic Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Leukopenia, Neutropenia and Agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Disruption of Body Temperature Regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] Antiemetic Effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson’s disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials (≥ 10%) were somnolence, increased appetite, fatigue, insomnia, sedation, parkinsonism, akathisia, vomiting, cough, constipation, nasopharyngitis, drooling, rhinorrhea, dry mouth, abdominal pain upper, dizziness, nausea, anxiety, headache, nasal congestion, rhinitis, tremor and rash. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials (causing discontinuation in > 1% of adults and/or > 2% of pediatrics) were nausea, somnolence, sedation, vomiting, dizziness and akathisia [see Adverse Reactions (6.5) ] . The data described in this section are derived from a clinical trial database consisting of 9,712 adult and pediatric patients exposed to one or more doses of risperidone for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania, autistic disorder and other psychiatric disorders in pediatrics and elderly patients with dementia. Of these 9,712 patients, 2,626 were patients who received risperidone while participating in double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. The conditions and duration of treatment with risperidone varied greatly and included (in overlapping categories) double-blind, fixed- and flexible-dose, placebo- or active-controlled studies and open-label phases of studies, inpatients and outpatients, and short-term (up to 12 weeks) and longer term (up to 3 years) exposures. Safety was assessed by collecting adverse events and performing physical examinations, vital signs, body weights, laboratory analyses, and ECGs. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of risperidone (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for risperidone often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The majority of all adverse reactions were mild to moderate in severity. Table 4 lists the adverse reactions reported in 1% or more of risperidone-treated adult patients with schizophrenia in three 4- to 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Table 4. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 1% of Risperidone-Treated Adult Patients with Schizophrenia in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Risperidone System/Organ Class Adverse Reaction 2 mg to 8 mg per day (N = 366) > 8 mg to 16 mg per day (N = 198) Placebo (N = 225) Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Anemia < 1 1 0 Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia 1 3 0 Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Ear pain < 1 1 0 Eye Disorders Vision blurred 3 1 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 9 4 4 Constipation 8 9 6 Dyspepsia 8 6 5 Vomiting 7 5 7 Dry mouth 4 0 1 Abdominal discomfort 3 1 1 Salivary hypersecretion 2 1 < 1 Diarrhea 2 1 1 Abdominal pain 1 1 0 Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 Stomach discomfort 1 1 1 General Disorders Fatigue 3 1 0 Chest pain 2 2 1 Asthenia 2 1 < 1 Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity < 1 1 0 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 3 4 3 Upper respiratory tract infection 2 3 1 Sinusitis 1 2 1 Urinary tract infection 1 3 0 Investigations Weight increased 1 1 0 Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 1 2 < 1 Heart rate increased < 1 2 0 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 1 0 < 1 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back pain 4 1 1 Arthralgia 2 3 < 1 Pain in extremity 2 1 1 Joint stiffness 1 1 0 Nervous System Disorders Parkinsonism * 14 17 8 Akathisia 10 10 3 Dizziness 7 4 2 Somnolence 7 2 1 Dystonia 3 4 2 Sedation 3 3 1 Tremor 2 3 1 Dizziness postural 2 0 0 Dyskinesia 1 2 2 Syncope 1 1 0 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 32 25 27 Anxiety 16 11 11 Nervousness 1 1 < 1 Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary incontinence 1 1 0 Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Ejaculation failure < 1 1 0 Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Nasal congestion 4 6 2 Dyspnea 1 2 0 Epistaxis < 1 2 0 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 1 4 1 Dry skin 1 3 0 Dandruff 1 1 0 Seborrheic dermatitis < 1 1 0 Hyperkeratosis 0 1 1 Vascular Disorders Orthostatic hypotension 2 1 0 Hypotension 1 1 0 Parkinsonism includes extrapyramidal disorder, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, cogwheel rigidity, akinesia, bradykinesia, hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle rigidity and Parkinson’s disease. Akathisia includes akathisia and restlessness. Dystonia includes dystonia, muscle spasms, muscle contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, oculogyration, tongue paralysis. Tremor includes tremor and parkinsonian rest tremor. Dyskinesia includes dyskinesia, muscle twitching, chorea and choreoathetosis. Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in 5% or more of risperidone-treated pediatric patients with schizophrenia in a 6-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Table 5. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5% of Risperidone-Treated Pediatric Patients with Schizophrenia in a Double-Blind Trial Percentage of Patients Reporting Event System/Organ Class Adverse Reaction Risperidone Placebo (N = 54) 1 mg to 3 mg per day (N = 55) 4 mg to 6 mg per day (N = 51) Gastrointestinal Disorders Salivary hypersecretion 0 10 2 Nervous System Disorders Parkinsonism * 16 28 11 Sedation 13 8 2 Somnolence 11 4 2 Tremor 11 10 6 Akathisia 9 10 4 Dizziness 7 14 2 Dystonia 2 6 0 Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 7 6 0 Parkinsonism includes extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness and hypokinesia. Akathisia includes akathisia and restlessness. Dystonia includes dystonia and oculogyration. Table 6 lists the adverse reactions reported in 1% or more of risperidone-treated adult patients with bipolar mania in four 3-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trials. Table 6. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 1% of Risperidone-Treated Adult Patients with Bipolar Mania in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Monotherapy Trials Percentage of Patients Reporting Event System/Organ Class Adverse Reaction Risperidone 1 mg to 6 mg per day (N = 448) Placebo (N = 424) Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia 1 < 1 Eye Disorders Vision blurred 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 5 2 Diarrhea 3 2 Salivary hypersecretion 3 1 Dyspepsia 2 2 Stomach discomfort 2 < 1 General Disorders Fatigue 2 1 Asthenia 1 1 Pyrexia 1 1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 1 Investigations Aspartate aminotransferase increased 1 < 1 Nervous System Disorders Parkinsonism * 25 9 Akathisia 9 3 Tremor 6 3 Dizziness 6 5 Sedation 6 2 Somnolence 5 2 Dystonia 5 1 Lethargy 2 1 Dyskinesia 1 < 1 Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Galactorrhea 1 0 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Acne 1 0 Parkinsonism includes extrapyramidal disorder, parkinsonism, musculoskeletal stiffness, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity. Akathisia includes akathisia and restlessness. Tremor includes tremor and parkinsonian rest tremor. Dystonia includes dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, torticollis. Dyskinesia includes muscle twitching and dyskinesia. Table 7 lists the adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of risperidone-treated adult patients with bipolar mania in two 3-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled adjuvant therapy trials. Table 7. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 2% of Risperidone-Treated Adult Patients with Bipolar Mania in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Adjuvant Therapy Trials Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Risperidone + Placebo + System/Organ Class Mood Stabilizer Mood Stabilizer Adverse Reaction (N = 127) (N = 126) Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 2 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Dyspepsia 9 8 Nausea 6 4 Diarrhea 6 4 Dry mouth 4 4 Vomiting 4 6 Constipation 3 3 Salivary hypersecretion 2 0 General Disorders Chest pain 2 1 Fatigue 2 2 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 3 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Investigations Weight increased 2 2 Nervous System Disorders Parkinsonism * 14 4 Headache 14 15 Akathisia 8 0 Dizziness 7 2 Sedation 6 3 Tremor 6 2 Somnolence 3 1 Lethargy 2 1 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 4 8 Anxiety 3 2 Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Pharyngolaryngeal pain 5 2 Cough 2 0 Parkinsonism includes extrapyramidal disorder, hypokinesia and bradykinesia. Akathisia includes hyperkinesia and akathisia. Table 8 lists the adverse reactions reported in 5% or more of risperidone-treated pediatric patients with bipolar mania in a 3-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Table 8. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5% of Risperidone-Treated Pediatric Patients with Bipolar Mania in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials Percentage of Patients Reporting Event System/Organ Class Adverse Reaction Risperidone Placebo (N = 58) 0.5 mg to 2.5 mg per day (N = 50) 3 mg to 6 mg per day (N = 61) Eye Disorders Vision blurred 4 7 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain upper 16 13 5 Nausea 16 13 7 Vomiting 10 10 5 Diarrhea 8 7 2 Dyspepsia 10 3 2 Stomach discomfort 6 0 2 General Disorders Fatigue 18 30 3 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Increased appetite 4 7 2 Nervous System Disorders Somnolence 22 30 12 Sedation 20 23 7 Dizziness 16 13 5 Parkinsonism * 6 12 3 Dystonia 6 5 0 Akathisia 0 8 2 Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 0 8 3 Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Pharyngolaryngeal pain 10 3 5 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 0 7 2 Parkinsonism includes musculoskeletal stiffness, extrapyramidal disorder, bradykinesia, and nuchal rigidity. Dystonia includes dystonia, laryngospasm and muscle spasms. Akathisia includes restlessness and akathisia. Table 9 lists the adverse reactions reported in 5% or more of risperidone-treated pediatric patients treated for irritability associated with autistic disorder in two 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Table 9. Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5% of Risperidone-Treated Pediatric Patients Treated for Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials Percentage of Patients Reporting Event System/Organ Class Adverse Reaction Risperidone 0.5 mg to 4 mg per day (N = 76) Placebo (N = 80) Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia 5 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting 25 21 Constipation 21 8 Dry mouth 15 6 Salivary hypersecretion 9 0 Nausea 8 6 General Disorders Fatigue 42 13 Feeling abnormal 5 0 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 21 10 Rhinitis 13 10 Upper respiratory tract infection 8 3 Investigations Weight increased 5 0 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Increased appetite 47 19 Nervous System Disorders Somnolence 49 18 Sedation 29 3 Drooling 16 5 Tremor 12 1 Parkinsonism * 11 1 Dizziness 9 3 Dyskinesia 7 3 Lethargy 5 3 Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 24 18 Rhinorrhea 16 13 Nasal congestion 13 5 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 11 8 Parkinsonism includes musculoskeletal stiffness, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity, cogwheel rigidity and muscle tightness. In another study with patients treated for irritability associated with autistic disorder, headache (6%), epistaxis (6%) and pyrexia (6%) were also observed in risperidone-treated pediatric subjects. The following adverse reactions occurred in < 1% of the adult patients and in < 5% of the pediatric patients treated with risperidone in the above double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial data sets. In addition, the following also includes adverse reactions reported in risperidone-treated patients who participated in other studies, including double-blind, active-controlled and open-label studies in schizophrenia and bipolar mania studies in pediatric patients with psychiatric disorders other than schizophrenia, bipolar mania, or autistic disorder, and studies in elderly patients with dementia. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: granulocytopenia, neutropenia Cardiac Disorders: sinus bradycardia, sinus tachycardia, atrioventricular block first degree, bundle branch block left, bundle branch block right, atrioventricular block Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: tinnitus Endocrine Disorders: hyperprolactinemia Eye Disorders: ocular hyperemia, eye discharge, conjunctivitis, eye rolling, eyelid edema, eye swelling, eyelid margin crusting, dry eye, lacrimation increased, photophobia, glaucoma, visual acuity reduced Gastrointestinal Disorders: dysphagia, fecaloma, fecal incontinence, gastritis, lip swelling, cheilitis, aptyalism General Disorders: edema peripheral, thirst, gait disturbance, influenza-like illness, pitting edema, edema, chills, sluggishness, malaise, chest discomfort, face edema, discomfort, generalized edema, drug withdrawal syndrome, peripheral coldness Immune System Disorders: drug hypersensitivity Infections and Infestations: pneumonia, influenza, ear infection, viral infection, pharyngitis, tonsillitis, bronchitis, eye infection, localized infection, cystitis, cellulitis, otitis media, onychomycosis, acarodermatitis, bronchopneumonia, respiratory tract infection, tracheobronchitis, otitis media chronic Investigations: body temperature increased, blood prolactin increased, alanine aminotransferase increased, electrocardiogram abnormal, eosinophil count increased, white blood cell count decreased, blood glucose increased, hemoglobin decreased, hematocrit decreased, body temperature decreased, blood pressure decreased, transaminases increased Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: polydipsia, anorexia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: joint swelling, musculoskeletal chest pain, posture abnormal, myalgia, neck pain, muscular weakness, rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders: balance disorder, disturbance in attention, dysarthria, unresponsive to stimuli, depressed level of consciousness, movement disorder, hypersomnia, transient ischemic attack, coordination abnormal, cerebrovascular accident, speech disorder, loss of consciousness, hypoesthesia, tardive dyskinesia, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular disorder, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, diabetic coma, head titubation Psychiatric Disorders: agitation, blunted affect, confusional state, middle insomnia, sleep disorder, listlessness, libido decreased, anorgasmia Renal and Urinary Disorders: enuresis, dysuria, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: menstruation irregular, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, vaginal discharge, menstrual disorder, erectile dysfunction, retrograde ejaculation, ejaculation disorder, sexual dysfunction, breast enlargement Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: wheezing, pneumonia aspiration, sinus congestion, dysphonia, productive cough, pulmonary congestion, respiratory tract congestion, rales, respiratory disorder, hyperventilation, nasal edema Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: erythema, skin discoloration, skin lesion, pruritus, skin disorder, rash erythematous, rash papular, rash generalized, rash maculopapular Vascular Disorders: flushing Approximately 7% (39/564) of risperidone-treated patients in double-blind, placebo-controlled trials discontinued treatment due to an adverse event, compared with 4% (10/225) who were receiving placebo. The adverse reactions associated with discontinuation in two or more risperidone-treated patients were: Table 10. Adverse Reactions Associated With Discontinuation in Two or More Risperidone-Treated Adult Patients in Schizophrenia Trials Risperidone Adverse Reaction 2 to 8 mg/day (N = 366) > 8 to 16 mg/day (N = 198) Placebo (N = 225) Dizziness 1.4% 1% 0% Nausea 1.4% 0% 0% Vomiting 0.8% 0% 0% Parkinsonism 0.8% 0% 0% Somnolence 0.8% 0% 0% Dystonia 0.5% 0% 0% Agitation 0.5% 0% 0% Abdominal pain 0.5% 0% 0% Orthostatic hypotension 0.3% 0.5% 0% Akathisia 0.3% 2% 0% Discontinuation for extrapyramidal symptoms (including Parkinsonism, akathisia, dystonia, and tardive dyskinesia) was 1% in placebo-treated patients, and 3.4% in active control-treated patients in a double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled trial. Approximately 7% (7/106), of risperidone-treated patients discontinued treatment due to an adverse event in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, compared with 4% (2/54) placebo-treated patients. The adverse reactions associated with discontinuation for at least one risperidone-treated patient were dizziness (2%), somnolence (1%), sedation (1%), lethargy (1%), anxiety (1%), balance disorder (1%), hypotension (1%), and palpitation (1%). In double-blind, placebo-controlled trials with risperidone as monotherapy, approximately 6% (25/448) of risperidone-treated patients discontinued treatment due to an adverse event, compared with approximately 5% (19/424) of placebo-treated patients. The adverse reactions associated with discontinuation in risperidone-treated patients were: Table 11. Adverse Reactions Associated With Discontinuation in Two or More Risperidone-Treated Adult Patients in Bipolar Mania Clinical Trials Adverse Reaction Risperidone 1 to 6 mg/day (N = 448) Placebo (N = 424) Parkinsonism 0.4% 0% Lethargy 0.2% 0% Dizziness 0.2% 0% Alanine aminotransferase increased 0.2% 0.2% Aspartate aminotransferase increased 0.2% 0.2% In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial 12% (13/111) of risperidone-treated patients discontinued due to an adverse event, compared with 7% (4/58) of placebo-treated patients. The adverse reactions associated with discontinuation in more than one risperidone-treated pediatric patient were nausea (3%), somnolence (2%), sedation (2%), and vomiting (2%). In the two 8-week, placebo-controlled trials in pediatric patients treated for irritability associated with autistic disorder (n = 156), one risperidone-treated patient discontinued due to an adverse reaction (Parkinsonism) and one placebo-treated patient discontinued due to an adverse event. Data from two fixed dose trials in adults with schizophrenia provided evidence of dose-relatedness for extrapyramidal symptoms associated with risperidone treatment. Two methods were used to measure extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in an 8-week trial comparing four fixed doses of risperidone (2, 6, 10 and 16 mg/day), including (1) a Parkinsonism score (mean change from baseline) from the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale, and (2) incidence of spontaneous complaints of EPS: Dose Groups Placebo Risperidone 2 mg Risperidone 6 mg Risperidone 10 mg Risperidone 16 mg Parkinsonism 1.2 0.9 1.8 2.4 2.6 EPS Incidence 13% 17% 21% 21% 35% Similar methods were used to measure extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in an 8-week trial comparing five fixed doses of risperidone (1, 4, 8, 12, and 16 mg/day): Dose Groups Risperidone 1 mg Risperidone 4 mg Risperidone 8 mg Risperidone 12 mg Risperidone 16 mg Parkinsonism 0.6 1.7 2.4 2.9 4.1 EPS Incidence 7% 12% 17% 18% 20% Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. Adverse event data elicited by a checklist for side effects from a large study comparing five fixed doses of risperidone (1, 4, 8, 12 and 16 mg/day) were explored for dose-relatedness of adverse events. A Cochran-Armitage Test for trend in these data revealed a positive trend (p < 0.05) for the following adverse reactions: somnolence, vision abnormal, dizziness, palpitations, weight increase, erectile dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, sexual function abnormal, fatigue and skin discoloration. Between-group comparisons for pooled placebo-controlled trials in adults revealed no statistically significant differences between risperidone and placebo in mean changes from baseline in ECG parameters, including QT, QTc, and PR intervals, and heart rate. When all risperidone doses were pooled from randomized controlled trials in several indications, there was a mean increase in heart rate of one beat per minute compared to no change for placebo patients. In short-term schizophrenia trials, higher doses of risperidone (8 to 16 mg/day) were associated with a higher mean increase in heart rate compared to placebo (4 to 6 beats per minute). In pooled placebo-controlled acute mania trials in adults, there were small decreases in mean heart rate, similar among all treatment groups. In the two placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with autistic disorder (aged 5 to 16 years) mean changes in heart rate were an increase of 8.4 beats per minute in the risperidone groups and 6.5 beats per minute in the placebo group. There were no other notable ECG changes. In a placebo-controlled acute mania trial in children and adolescents (aged 10 to 17 years), there were no significant changes in ECG parameters, other than the effect of risperidone to transiently increase pulse rate (< 6 beats per minute). In two controlled schizophrenia trials in adolescents (aged 13 to 17 years), there were no clinically meaningful changes in ECG parameters including corrected QT intervals between treatment groups or within treatment groups over time. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of risperidone; because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: agranulocytosis, alopecia, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, atrial fibrillation, blood cholesterol increased, blood triglycerides increased, diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis in patients with impaired glucose metabolism, drug withdrawal syndrome neonatal, dysgeusia, hypoglycemia, hypothermia, inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, intestinal obstruction, jaundice, mania, pancreatitis, priapism, QT prolongation, sleep apnea syndrome, thrombocytopenia, urinary retention and water intoxication. Other adverse events reported since market introduction, which were temporally related to risperidone but not necessarily causally related, include the following: pituitary adenoma, pulmonary embolism, precocious puberty, cardiopulmonary arrest, and sudden death.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
DRUG INTERACTIONS Given the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is taken in combination with other centrally-acting drugs and alcohol. Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, risperidone may enhance the hypotensive effects of other therapeutic agents with this potential. Risperidone may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Amitriptyline did not affect the pharmacokinetics of risperidone or risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined. Cimetidine and ranitidine increased the bioavailability of risperidone by 64% and 26%, respectively. However, cimetidine did not affect the AUC of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined, whereas ranitidine increased the AUC of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone combined by 20%. Chronic administration of clozapine with risperidone may decrease the clearance of risperidone. Repeated oral doses of risperidone (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n = 13). Repeated oral doses of risperidone (4 mg once daily) did not affect the pre-dose or average plasma concentrations and exposure (AUC) of valproate (1000 mg/day in three divided doses) compared to placebo (n = 21). However, there was a 20% increase in valproate peak plasma concentration (C max ) after concomitant administration of risperidone. Risperidone (0.25 mg twice daily) did not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. Risperidone is metabolized to 9-hydroxyrisperidone by CYP 2D6, an enzyme that is polymorphic in the population and that can be inhibited by a variety of psychotropic and other drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drug interactions that reduce the metabolism of risperidone to 9-hydroxyrisperidone would increase the plasma concentrations of risperidone and lower the concentrations of 9-hydroxyrisperidone. Analysis of clinical studies involving a modest number of poor metabolizers (n ≈ 70) does not suggest that poor and extensive metabolizers have different rates of adverse effects. No comparison of effectiveness in the two groups has been made. In vitro studies showed that drugs metabolized by other CYP isozymes, including 1A1, 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, and 3A4, are only weak inhibitors of risperidone metabolism. Fluoxetine (20 mg once daily) and paroxetine (20 mg once daily) have been shown to increase the plasma concentration of risperidone 2.5- to 2.8- fold and 3- to 9-fold, respectively. Fluoxetine did not affect the plasma concentration of 9-hydroxyrisperidone. Paroxetine lowered the concentration of 9-hydroxyrisperidone by about 10%. When either concomitant fluoxetine or paroxetine is initiated or discontinued, the physician should reevaluate the dosing of risperidone. The effects of discontinuation of concomitant fluoxetine or paroxetine therapy on the pharmacokinetics of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone have not been studied. There were no significant interactions between risperidone and erythromycin. Carbamazepine coadministration decreased the steady-state plasma concentrations of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone by about 50%. Plasma concentrations of carbamazepine did not appear to be affected. The dose of risperidone may need to be titrated accordingly for patients receiving carbamazepine, particularly during initiation or discontinuation of carbamazepine therapy. Coadministration of other known enzyme inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, and phenobarbital) with risperidone may cause similar decreases in the combined plasma concentrations of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone, which could lead to decreased efficacy of risperidone treatment. In vitro studies indicate that risperidone is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP 2D6. Therefore, risperidone is not expected to substantially inhibit the clearance of drugs that are metabolized by this enzymatic pathway. In drug interaction studies, risperidone did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of donepezil and galantamine, which are metabolized by CYP 2D6.

OVERDOSAGE:
OVERDOSAGE Premarketing experience included eight reports of acute risperidone overdosage with estimated doses ranging from 20 mg to 300 mg and no fatalities. In general, reported signs and symptoms were those resulting from an exaggeration of the drug's known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness and sedation, tachycardia and hypotension, and extrapyramidal symptoms. One case, involving an estimated overdose of 240 mg, was associated with hyponatremia, hypokalemia, prolonged QT, and widened QRS. Another case, involving an estimated overdose of 36 mg, was associated with a seizure. Post-marketing experience includes reports of acute risperidone overdosage, with estimated doses of up to 360 mg. In general, the most frequently reported signs and symptoms are those resulting from an exaggeration of the drug's known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness, sedation, tachycardia, hypotension, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Other adverse reactions reported since market introduction related to risperidone overdose include prolonged QT interval and convulsions. Torsades de pointes has been reported in association with combined overdose of risperidone and paroxetine. In case of acute overdosage, establish and maintain an airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation. Gastric lavage (after intubation, if patient is unconscious) and administration of activated charcoal together with a laxative should be considered. The possibility of obtundation, seizures, or dystonic reaction of the head and neck following overdose may create a risk of aspiration with induced emesis. Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous electrocardiographic monitoring to detect possible arrhythmias. If antiarrhythmic therapy is administered, disopyramide, procainamide, and quinidine carry a theoretical hazard of QT-prolonging effects that might be additive to those of risperidone. Similarly, it is reasonable to expect that the alpha-blocking properties of bretylium might be additive to those of risperidone, resulting in problematic hypotension. There is no specific antidote to risperidone. Therefore, appropriate supportive measures should be instituted. The possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should be treated with appropriate measures, such as intravenous fluids and/or sympathomimetic agents (epinephrine and dopamine should not be used, since beta stimulation may worsen hypotension in the setting of risperidone-induced alpha blockade). In cases of severe extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic medication should be administered. Close medical supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia was established in four short-term (4- to 8-week) controlled trials of psychotic inpatients who met DSM-III-R criteria for schizophrenia. Several instruments were used for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms in these studies, among them the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), a multi-item inventory of general psychopathology traditionally used to evaluate the effects of drug treatment in schizophrenia. The BPRS psychosis cluster (conceptual disorganization, hallucinatory behavior, suspiciousness, and unusual thought content) is considered a particularly useful subset for assessing actively psychotic schizophrenic patients. A second traditional assessment, the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), reflects the impression of a skilled observer, fully familiar with the manifestations of schizophrenia, about the overall clinical state of the patient. In addition, the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Scale for Assessing Negative Symptoms (SANS) were employed. The results of the trials follow: (1) In a 6-week, placebo-controlled trial (n = 160) involving titration of risperidone in doses up to 10 mg/day (twice-daily schedule), risperidone was generally superior to placebo on the BPRS total score, on the BPRS psychosis cluster, and marginally superior to placebo on the SANS. (2) In an 8-week, placebo-controlled trial (n = 513) involving four fixed doses of risperidone (2 mg/day, 6 mg/day, 10 mg/day, and 16 mg/day, on a twice-daily schedule), all four risperidone groups were generally superior to placebo on the BPRS total score, BPRS psychosis cluster, and CGI severity score; the three highest risperidone dose groups were generally superior to placebo on the PANSS negative subscale. The most consistently positive responses on all measures were seen for the 6 mg dose group, and there was no suggestion of increased benefit from larger doses. (3) In an 8-week, dose comparison trial (n = 1,356) involving five fixed doses of risperidone (1 mg/day, 4 mg/day, 8 mg/day, 12 mg/day, and 16 mg/day, on a twice-daily schedule), the four highest risperidone dose groups were generally superior to the 1 mg risperidone dose group on BPRS total score, BPRS psychosis cluster, and CGI severity score. None of the dose groups were superior to the 1 mg group on the PANSS negative subscale. The most consistently positive responses were seen for the 4 mg dose group. (4) In a 4-week, placebo-controlled dose comparison trial (n = 246) involving two fixed doses of risperidone (4 and 8 mg/day on a once-daily schedule), both risperidone dose groups were generally superior to placebo on several PANSS measures, including a response measure (> 20% reduction in PANSS total score), PANSS total score, and the BPRS psychosis cluster (derived from PANSS). The results were generally stronger for the 8 mg than for the 4 mg dose group. In a longer term trial, 365 adult outpatients predominantly meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia and who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks on an antipsychotic medication were randomized to risperidone (2 to 8 mg/day) or to an active comparator, for 1 to 2 years of observation for relapse. Patients receiving risperidone experienced a significantly longer time to relapse over this time period compared to those receiving the active comparator. The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents aged 13 to 17 years was demonstrated in two short-term (6 and 8 weeks), double-blind controlled trials. All patients met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia and were experiencing an acute episode at time of enrollment. In the first trial (study #1), patients were randomized into one of three treatment groups: risperidone 1 to 3 mg/day (n = 55, mean modal dose = 2.6 mg), risperidone 4 to 6 mg/day (n = 51, mean modal dose = 5.3 mg) or placebo (n = 54). In the second trial (study #2), patients were randomized to either risperidone 0.15 to 0.6 mg/day (n = 132, mean modal dose = 0.5 mg) or risperidone 1.5 to 6 mg/day (n = 125, mean modal dose = 4 mg). In all cases, study medication was initiated at 0.5 mg/day (with the exception of the 0.15 to 0.6 mg/day group in study #2, where the initial dose was 0.05 mg/day) and titrated to the target dosage range by approximately Day 7. Subsequently, dosage was increased to the maximum tolerated dose within the target dose range by Day 14. The primary efficacy variable in all studies was the mean change from baseline in total PANSS score. Results of the studies demonstrated efficacy of risperidone in all dose groups from 1 to 6 mg/day compared to placebo, as measured by significant reduction of total PANSS score. The efficacy on the primary parameter in the 1 to 3 mg/day group was comparable to the 4 to 6 mg/day group in study #1 and similar to the efficacy demonstrated in the 1.5 to 6 mg/day group in study #2. In study #2, the efficacy in the 1.5 to 6 mg/day group was statistically significantly greater than that in the 0.15 to 0.6 mg/day group. Doses higher than 3 mg/day did not reveal any trend towards greater efficacy. The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes was established in two short-term (3-week) placebo-controlled trials in patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for Bipolar I Disorder with manic or mixed episodes. These trials included patients with or without psychotic features. The primary rating instrument used for assessing manic symptoms in these trials was the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), an 11-item clinician-rated scale traditionally used to assess the degree of manic symptomatology (irritability, disruptive/aggressive behavior, sleep, elevated mood, speech, increased activity, sexual interest, language/thought disorder, thought content, appearance, and insight) in a range from 0 (no manic features) to 60 (maximum score). The primary outcome in these trials was change from baseline in the YMRS total score. The results of the trials follow: (1) In one 3-week placebo-controlled trial (n = 246), limited to patients with manic episodes, which involved a dose range of risperidone 1 to 6 mg/day, once daily, starting at 3 mg/day (mean modal dose was 4.1 mg/day), risperidone was superior to placebo in the reduction of YMRS total score. (2) In another 3-week placebo-controlled trial (n = 286), which involved a dose range of 1 to 6 mg/day, once daily, starting at 3 mg/day (mean modal dose was 5.6 mg/day), risperidone was superior to placebo in the reduction of YMRS total score. The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of mania in children or adolescents with Bipolar I Disorder was demonstrated in a 3-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial including patients ranging in ages from 10 to 17 years who were experiencing a manic or mixed episode of Bipolar I Disorder. Patients were randomized into one of three treatment groups: risperidone 0.5 to 2.5 mg/day (n = 50, mean modal dose = 1.9 mg), risperidone 3 to 6 mg/day (n = 61, mean modal dose = 4.7 mg) or placebo (n = 58). In all cases, study medication was initiated at 0.5 mg/day and titrated to the target dosage range by Day 7, with further increases in dosage to the maximum tolerated dose within the targeted dose range by Day 10. The primary rating instrument used for assessing efficacy in this study was the mean change from baseline in the total YMRS score. Results of this study demonstrated efficacy of risperidone in both dose groups compared with placebo, as measured by significant reduction of total YMRS score. The efficacy on the primary parameter in the 3 to 6 mg/day dose group was comparable to the 0.5 to 2.5 mg/day dose group. Doses higher than 2.5 mg/day did not reveal any trend towards greater efficacy. The efficacy of risperidone with concomitant lithium or valproate in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes was established in one controlled trial in adult patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for Bipolar I Disorder. This trial included patients with or without psychotic features and with or without a rapid-cycling course. (1) In this 3-week placebo-controlled combination trial, 148 in- or outpatients on lithium or valproate therapy with inadequately controlled manic or mixed symptoms were randomized to receive risperidone, placebo, or an active comparator, in combination with their original therapy. Risperidone, in a dose range of 1 to 6 mg/day, once daily, starting at 2 mg/day (mean modal dose of 3.8 mg/day), combined with lithium or valproate (in a therapeutic range of 0.6 mEq/L to 1.4 mEq/L or 50 mcg/mL to 120 mcg/mL, respectively) was superior to lithium or valproate alone in the reduction of YMRS total score. (2) In a second 3-week placebo-controlled combination trial, 142 in- or outpatients on lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine therapy with inadequately controlled manic or mixed symptoms were randomized to receive risperidone or placebo, in combination with their original therapy. Risperidone, in a dose range of 1 to 6 mg/day, once daily, starting at 2 mg/day (mean modal dose of 3.7 mg/day), combined with lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine (in therapeutic ranges of 0.6 mEq/L to 1.4 mEq/L for lithium, 50 mcg/mL to 125 mcg/mL for valproate, or 4 to 12 mcg/mL for carbamazepine, respectively) was not superior to lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine alone in the reduction of YMRS total score. A possible explanation for the failure of this trial was induction of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone clearance by carbamazepine, leading to subtherapeutic levels of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone. The efficacy of risperidone in the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder was established in two 8-week, placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents (aged 5 to 16 years) who met the DSM-IV criteria for autistic disorder. Over 90% of these subjects were under 12 years of age and most weighed over 20 kg (16 kg to 104.3 kg). Efficacy was evaluated using two assessment scales: the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) and the Clinical Global Impression - Change (CGI-C) scale. The primary outcome measure in both trials was the change from baseline to endpoint in the Irritability subscale of the ABC (ABC-I). The ABC-I subscale measured the emotional and behavioral symptoms of autism, including aggression towards others, deliberate self-injuriousness, temper tantrums and quickly changing moods. The CGI-C rating at endpoint was a co-primary outcome measure in one of the studies. The results of these trials are as follows: (1) In one of the 8-week, placebo-controlled trials, children and adolescents with autistic disorder (n = 101), aged 5 to 16 years, received twice daily doses of placebo or risperidone 0.5 to 3.5 mg/day on a weight-adjusted basis. Risperidone, starting at 0.25 mg/day or 0.5 mg/day depending on baseline weight (< 20 kg and ≥ 20 kg, respectively) and titrated to clinical response (mean modal dose of 1.9 mg/day, equivalent to 0.06 mg/kg/day), significantly improved scores on the ABC-I subscale and on the CGI-C scale compared with placebo. (2) In the other 8-week, placebo-controlled trial in children with autistic disorder (n = 55), aged 5 to 12 years, risperidone 0.02 to 0.06 mg/kg/day given once or twice daily, starting at 0.01 mg/kg/day and titrated to clinical response (mean modal dose of 0.05 mg/kg/day, equivalent to 1.4 mg/day), significantly improved scores on the ABC-I subscale compared with placebo. Following completion of the first 8-week double-blind study, 63 patients entered an open-label study extension where they were treated with risperidone for 4 or 6 months (depending on whether they received risperidone or placebo in the double-blind study). During this open-label treatment period, patients were maintained on a mean modal dose of risperidone of 1.8 to 2.1 mg/day (equivalent to 0.05 to 0.07 mg/kg/day). Patients who maintained their positive response to risperidone (response was defined as ≥ 25% improvement on the ABC-I subscale and a CGI-C rating of ‘much improved’ or ‘very much improved’) during the 4 to 6 month open-label treatment phase for about 140 days, on average, were randomized to receive risperidone or placebo during an 8-week, double-blind withdrawal study (n = 39 of the 63 patients). A pre-planned interim analysis of data from patients who completed the withdrawal study (n = 32), undertaken by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, demonstrated a significantly lower relapse rate in the risperidone group compared with the placebo group. Based on the interim analysis results, the study was terminated due to demonstration of a statistically significant effect on relapse prevention. Relapse was defined as ≥ 25% worsening on the most recent assessment of the ABC-I subscale (in relation to baseline of the randomized withdrawal phase).

SPL TEXT:
Risperidone risperidone SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM DOCUSATE SODIUM HYPROMELLOSES LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE POLYDEXTROSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOLS SODIUM BENZOATE SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FD&C YELLOW NO. 6 RISPERIDONE RISPERIDONE TABLET, FILM COATED M;R5