DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

ACTIVE INGREDIENT:
Active ingredient (in each chewing piece) Nicotine polacrilex (equal to 4 mg nicotine)

INACTIVE INGREDIENTS:
Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium, calcium carbonate, carnauba wax, D&C yellow no. 10, flavors, gelatin, gum base, mannitol, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate anhydrous, sorbitol, talc, titanium dioxide, xylitol

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms, including nicotine craving, associated with quitting smoking

WARNINGS:
Warnings If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider. Smoking can seriously harm your child. Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine. This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking. However, the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known. Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium-restricted diet • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Nicotine can increase your heart rate. • high blood pressure not controlled with medication. Nicotine can increase blood pressure. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma. Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in the trash. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).

ASK A DOCTOR BEFORE USE:
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium-restricted diet • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Nicotine can increase your heart rate. • high blood pressure not controlled with medication. Nicotine can increase blood pressure. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 2 mg • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 4 mg according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles. Then park it between your cheek and gum. When the tingle is gone, begin chewing again, until the tingle returns. • repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone (about 30 minutes) • do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum, or while chewing a piece • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • if you experience strong or frequent cravings, you may use a second piece within the hour. However, do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects. • do not use more than 24 pieces a day • it is important to complete treatment. If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider.

STOP USE IF:
Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash)

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Other information • each piece contains: calcium 100 mg and sodium 11 mg • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) • protect from light

SPL TEXT:
basic care nicotine Nicotine Polacrilex NICOTINE NICOTINE ACESULFAME POTASSIUM CALCIUM CARBONATE CARNAUBA WAX D&C YELLOW NO. 10 GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED MANNITOL SODIUM BICARBONATE SODIUM CARBONATE SORBITOL TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE XYLITOL POLACRILIN light;coated