DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

ACTIVE INGREDIENT:
ACTIVE INGREDIENT Benzalkonium chloride, 0.13%

INACTIVE INGREDIENTS:
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS isopropyl alcohol, water

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
USES Treat cold sores / fever blisters Help guard against infection

WARNINGS:
WARNINGS For external use only. Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body if you are allergic to any ingredient in the product more than 3 times per day longer than one week unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days Ask a doctor if used to treat deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns you are pregnant or nursing a baby When using this product you may feel a brief stinging sensation when applying it. The sting should go away in a short time. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

DO NOT USE:
Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body if you are allergic to any ingredient in the product more than 3 times per day longer than one week unless directed by a doctor.

ASK A DOCTOR BEFORE USE:
Ask a doctor if used to treat deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns you are pregnant or nursing a baby

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
DIRECTIONS Adults and children over 2 years of age: Clean the lip area of any lip preparations, lotions, ointments, residual beverages, or cosmetics including lipstick using warm water and a washcloth Remove the cardboard top from applicator and place onto the glass/plastic vial end - opposite the brush end of the product Squeeze the cardboard to break the inner glass vial open Saturate the applicator end with solution by holding the brush end down and squeezing the container until you can see liquid on the brush applicator For best results, massage the solution into the cold sore by rubbing. Rub firmly, but take care not to damage the tissue. The purpose of the rubbing is to deliver the drug to the infection site. Hold the vial so the solution flows to the sore. To treat most cold sores, usually one treatment is enough. If your symptoms go away and then return later, apply another dose. Do not use more than 3 times per day Discard after use. Children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor.

STOP USE IF:
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature: 15° - 30° C (59° - 86° F) The ingredients in toothpaste, softdrinks, and some fruit juices can de-activate the active ingredient. For best results, avoid brushing your teeth with toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for one hour after applying.

SPL TEXT:
Cold Sore Treatment Benzalkonium Chloride Benzalkonium chloride Benzalkonium isopropyl alcohol water