DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION OXYCONTIN (oxycodone hydrochloride extended-release tablets) is an opioid analgesic supplied in 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg, 60 mg, and 80 mg tablets for oral administration. The tablet strengths describe the amount of oxycodone per tablet as the hydrochloride salt. The structural formula for oxycodone hydrochloride is as follows: The chemical name is 4, 5α-epoxy-14-hydroxy-3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one hydrochloride. Oxycodone is a white, odorless crystalline powder derived from the opium alkaloid, thebaine. Oxycodone hydrochloride dissolves in water (1 g in 6 to 7 mL). It is slightly soluble in alcohol (octanol water partition coefficient 0.7). The 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg, 60 mg and 80 mg tablets contain the following inactive ingredients: butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), hypromellose, polyethylene glycol 400, polyethylene oxide, magnesium stearate, titanium dioxide. The 10 mg tablets also contain hydroxypropyl cellulose. The 15 mg tablets also contain black iron oxide, yellow iron oxide, and red iron oxide. The 20 mg tablets also contain polysorbate 80 and red iron oxide. The 30 mg tablets also contain polysorbate 80, red iron oxide, yellow iron oxide, and black iron oxide. The 40 mg tablets also contain polysorbate 80 and yellow iron oxide. The 60 mg tablets also contain polysorbate 80, red iron oxide and black iron oxide. The 80 mg tablets also contain hydroxypropyl cellulose, yellow iron oxide and FD&C Blue #2/Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake. OXYCONTIN Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oxycodone hydrochloride is a full opioid agonist and is relatively selective for the mu receptor, although it can bind to other opioid receptors at higher doses. The principal therapeutic action of oxycodone is analgesia. Like all full opioid agonists, there is no ceiling effect to analgesia for oxycodone. Clinically, dosage is titrated to provide adequate analgesia and may be limited by adverse reactions, including respiratory and CNS depression. 12.1 Mechanism of Action Central Nervous System The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown. However, specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are thought to play a role in the analgesic effects of this drug. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics A single-dose, double-blind, placebo- and dose-controlled study was conducted using OXYCONTIN (10, 20, and 30 mg) in an analgesic pain model involving 182 patients with moderate to severe pain. OXYCONTIN doses of 20 mg and 30 mg produced statistically significant pain reduction compared to placebo. Effects on the Central Nervous System Oxycodone produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers. The respiratory depression involves both a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to increases in CO 2 tension and to electrical stimulation. Oxycodone depresses the cough reflex by direct effect on the cough center in the medulla. Antitussive effects may occur with doses lower than those usually required for analgesia. Oxycodone causes miosis, even in total darkness. Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic (e.g., pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origin may produce similar findings). Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in the setting of oxycodone overdose [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Oxycodone causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased to the point of spasm resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in gastric, biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of sphincter of Oddi, and transient elevations in serum amylase. Effects on the Cardiovascular System Oxycodone may produce release of histamine with or without associated peripheral vasodilation. Manifestations of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes, sweating, and/or orthostatic hypotension. Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of ACTH, cortisol, testosterone, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in humans. They also stimulate prolactin, growth hormone (GH) secretion, and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon. Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Overall, the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive. Concentration –Efficacy Relationships Studies in normal volunteers and patients reveal predictable relationships between oxycodone dosage and plasma oxycodone concentrations, as well as between concentration and certain expected opioid effects, such as pupillary constriction, sedation, overall subjective “drug effect”, analgesia and feelings of relaxation. The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients, especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids. As a result, patients must be treated with individualized titration of dosage to the desired effect. The minimum effective analgesic concentration of oxycodone for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain, the development of a new pain syndrome and/or the development of analgesic tolerance. Concentration –Adverse Reaction Relationships There is a relationship between increasing oxycodone plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose-related opioid adverse reactions such as nausea, vomiting, CNS effects, and respiratory depression. In opioid-tolerant patients, the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid-related side effects. The dose of OXYCONTIN must be individualized because the effective analgesic dose for some patients will be too high to be tolerated by other patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The activity of OXYCONTIN is primarily due to the parent drug oxycodone. OXYCONTIN is designed to provide delivery of oxycodone over 12 hours. Cutting, breaking, chewing, crushing or dissolving OXYCONTIN impairs the controlled-release delivery mechanism and results in the rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxycodone. Oxycodone release from OXYCONTIN is pH independent. The oral bioavailability of oxycodone is 60% to 87%. The relative oral bioavailability of oxycodone from OXYCONTIN to that from immediate-release oral dosage forms is 100%. Upon repeated dosing with OXYCONTIN in healthy subjects in pharmacokinetic studies, steady-state levels were achieved within 24-36 hours. Oxycodone is extensively metabolized and eliminated primarily in the urine as both conjugated and unconjugated metabolites. The apparent elimination half-life (t ½ ) of oxycodone following the administration of OXYCONTIN was 4.5 hours compared to 3.2 hours for immediate-release oxycodone. Absorption About 60% to 87% of an oral dose of oxycodone reaches the central compartment in comparison to a parenteral dose. This high oral bioavailability is due to low pre-systemic and/or first-pass metabolism. Plasma Oxycodone Concentration over Time Dose proportionality has been established for OXYCONTIN 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg, 60 mg, and 80 mg tablet strengths for both peak plasma concentrations (C max ) and extent of absorption (AUC) (see Table 3) . Given the short elimination t ½ of oxycodone, steady-state plasma concentrations of oxycodone are achieved within 24-36 hours of initiation of dosing with OXYCONTIN. In a study comparing 10 mg of OXYCONTIN every 12 hours to 5 mg of immediate-release oxycodone every 6 hours, the two treatments were found to be equivalent for AUC and C max , and similar for C min (trough) concentrations. TABLE 3 * for single-dose AUC = AUC 0-inf †data obtained while subjects received naltrexone, which can enhance absorption Mean [% coefficient of variation] Regimen Dosage Form AUC (ng·hr/mL)* C max (ng/mL) T max (hr) Single Dose† 10 mg 136 [27] 11.5 [27] 5.11 [21] 15 mg 196 [28] 16.8 [29] 4.59 [19] 20 mg 248 [25] 22.7 [25] 4.63 [22] 30 mg 377 [24] 34.6 [21] 4.61 [19] 40 mg 497 [27] 47.4 [30] 4.40 [22] 60 mg 705 [22] 64.6 [24] 4.15 [26] 80 mg 908 [21] 87.1 [29] 4.27 [26] Food Effects Food has no significant effect on the extent of absorption of oxycodone from OXYCONTIN. Distribution Following intravenous administration, the steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) for oxycodone was 2.6 L/kg. Oxycodone binding to plasma protein at 37°C and a pH of 7.4 was about 45%. Once absorbed, oxycodone is distributed to skeletal muscle, liver, intestinal tract, lungs, spleen, and brain. Oxycodone has been found in breast milk [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . Metabolism Oxycodone is extensively metabolized by multiple metabolic pathways to produce noroxycodone, oxymorphone and noroxymorphone, which are subsequently glucuronidated. Noroxycodone and noroxymorphone are the major circulating metabolites. CYP3A mediated N -demethylation to noroxycodone is the primary metabolic pathway of oxycodone with a lower contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O -demethylation to oxymorphone. Therefore, the formation of these and related metabolites can, in theory, be affected by other drugs [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . Noroxycodone exhibits very weak anti-nociceptive potency compared to oxycodone, however, it undergoes further oxidation to produce noroxymorphone, which is active at opioid receptors. Although noroxymorphone is an active metabolite and present at relatively high concentrations in circulation, it does not appear to cross the blood-brain barrier to a significant extent. Oxymorphone is present in the plasma only at low concentrations and undergoes further metabolism to form its glucuronide and noroxymorphone. Oxymorphone has been shown to be active and possessing analgesic activity but its contribution to analgesia following oxycodone administration is thought to be clinically insignificant. Other metabolites (α- and ß-oxycodol, noroxycodol and oxymorphol) may be present at very low concentrations and demonstrate limited penetration into the brain as compared to oxycodone. The enzymes responsible for keto-reduction and glucuronidation pathways in oxycodone metabolism have not been established. Excretion Oxycodone and its metabolites are excreted primarily via the kidney. The amounts measured in the urine have been reported as follows: free and conjugated oxycodone 8.9%, free noroxycodone 23%, free oxymorphone less than 1%, conjugated oxymorphone 10%, free and conjugated noroxymorphone 14%, reduced free and conjugated metabolites up to 18%. The total plasma clearance was approximately 1.4 L/min in adults. Specific Populations Geriatric Use The plasma concentrations of oxycodone are only nominally affected by age, being 15% greater in elderly as compared to young subjects (age 21-45). Gender Across individual pharmacokinetic studies, average plasma oxycodone concentrations for female subjects were up to 25% higher than for male subjects on a body weight-adjusted basis. The reason for this difference is unknown [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 )] . Renal Impairment Data from a pharmacokinetic study involving 13 patients with mild to severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <60 mL/min) showed peak plasma oxycodone and noroxycodone concentrations 50% and 20% higher, respectively, and AUC values for oxycodone, noroxycodone, and oxymorphone 60%, 50%, and 40% higher than normal subjects, respectively. This was accompanied by an increase in sedation but not by differences in respiratory rate, pupillary constriction, or several other measures of drug effect. There was an increase in mean elimination t ½ for oxycodone of 1 hour. Hepatic Impairment Data from a study involving 24 patients with mild to moderate hepatic dysfunction show peak plasma oxycodone and noroxycodone concentrations 50% and 20% higher, respectively, than healthy subjects. AUC values are 95% and 65% higher, respectively. Oxymorphone peak plasma concentrations and AUC values are lower by 30% and 40%. These differences are accompanied by increases in some, but not other, drug effects. The mean elimination t ½ for oxycodone increased by 2.3 hours. Drug-Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Inhibitors CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in noroxycodone formation. Co-administration of OXYCONTIN (10 mg single dose) and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole (200 mg BID) increased oxycodone AUC and C max by 170% and 100%, respectively [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, decreased oxycodone AUC and C max values by 86% and 63%, respectively [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs such as certain cardiovascular drugs (e.g., quinidine) and antidepressants (e.g., fluoxetine), such blockade has not been shown to be of clinical significance with OXYCONTIN [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )].

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OXYCONTIN is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve OXYCONTIN for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve OXYCONTIN for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. OXYCONTIN is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesicOXYCONTIN is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic OXYCONTIN is an opioid agonist product indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release formulations, reserve OXYCONTIN for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g. non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) OXYCONTIN is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS OXYCONTIN is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment Known or suspected paralytic ileus and gastrointestinal obstruction Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to oxycodone [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma ( 4 ) Known or suspected paralytic ileus and GI obstruction ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to oxycodone ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE and MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; and CYTOCHROME P450 3A4 INTERACTION Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse OXYCONTIN ® exposes patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction , abuse and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient’s risk prior to prescribing OXYCONTIN and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors or conditions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of OXYCONTIN. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation of OXYCONTIN or following a dose increase. Instruct patients to swallow OXYCONTIN tablets whole; crushing, chewing, or dissolving OXYCONTIN tablets can cause rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Accidental Ingestion Accidental ingestion of even one dose of OXYCONTIN, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of OXYCONTIN during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Cytochrome P450 3A4 Interaction The concomitant use of OXYCONTIN with all cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors may result in an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations, which could increase or prolong adverse drug effects and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. In addition, discontinuation of a concomitantly used cytochrome P450 3A4 inducer may result in an increase in oxycodone plasma concentration. Monitor patients receiving OXYCONTIN and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE and MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; and CYTOCHROME P450 3A4 INTERACTION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning . OXYCONTIN exposes users to risks of addictions, abuse and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient’s risk before prescribing and monitor regularly for development of these behaviors and conditions. ( 5.1 ) Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur. Monitor closely, especially upon initiation or following a dose increase. Instruct patients to swallow OXYCONTIN tablets whole to avoid exposure to a potentially fatal dose of oxycodone. ( 5.2 ) Accidental ingestion of OXYCONTIN, especially in children, can result in a fatal overdose of oxycodone. ( 5.2 ) Prolonged use of OXYCONTIN during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. ( 5.3 ) Initiation of CYP3A4 inhibitors (or discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers) can result in a fatal overdose of oxycodone from OXYCONTIN. ( 5.14 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION OXYCONTIN 60 mg and 80 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 40 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 80 mg are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. ( 2.1 ) For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate with 10 mg tablets orally every 12 hours. ( 2.1 ) Do not abruptly discontinue OXYCONTIN in a physically dependent patient. ( 2.4 ) Tablets must be swallowed intact and are not to be cut, broken, chewed, crushed, or dissolved (risk of potentially fatal dose). ( 2.5 , 5.1 ) OXYCONTIN tablets should be taken one tablet at a time, with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in the mouth. ( 2.5 , 5.9 , 17 ) 2.1 Initial Dosing OXYCONTIN should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. OXYCONTIN 60 mg and 80 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 40 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 80 mg are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine/day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl/hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone/day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with OXYCONTIN [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. OXYCONTIN tablets must be taken whole, one tablet at a time, with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in the mouth [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Crushing, chewing, or dissolving OXYCONTIN tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of oxycodone and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Use of OXYCONTIN as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with OXYCONTIN with one 10 mg tablet orally every 12 hours. Use of OXYCONTIN in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is OXYCONTIN 10 mg orally every 12 hours. Patients who are opioid tolerant are those receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression. Conversion from other Oral Oxycodone Formulations to OXYCONTIN Patients receiving other oral oxycodone formulations may be converted to OXYCONTIN by administering one-half of the patient's total daily oral oxycodone dose as OXYCONTIN every 12 hours.Patients receiving other oral oxycodone formulations may be converted to OXYCONTIN by administering one-half of the patient's total daily oral oxycodone dose as OXYCONTIN every 12 hours. Conversion from other Opioids to OXYCONTIN Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when OXYCONTIN therapy is initiated. There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to OXYCONTIN defined by clinical trials. Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when OXYCONTIN therapy is initiated and initiate dosing using OXYCONTIN 10 mg orally every 12 hours. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour oral oxycodone requirements and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral oxycodone requirements which could result in adverse reactions. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is substantial inter-patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products. Conversion from Methadone to OXYCONTIN Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma. Conversion from Transdermal Fentanyl to OXYCONTIN Eighteen hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch, OXYCONTIN treatment can be initiated. Although there has been no systematic assessment of such conversion, a conservative oxycodone dose, approximately 10 mg every 12 hours of OXYCONTIN, should be initially substituted for each 25 mcg/hr fentanyl transdermal patch. Follow the patient closely during conversion from transdermal fentanyl to OXYCONTIN, as there is limited documented experience with this conversion.Eighteen hours following the removal of the transdermal fentanyl patch, OXYCONTIN treatment can be initiated. Although there has been no systematic assessment of such conversion, a conservative oxycodone dose, approximately 10 mg every 12 hours of OXYCONTIN, should be initially substituted for each 25 mcg/hr fentanyl transdermal patch. Follow the patient closely during conversion from transdermal fentanyl to OXYCONTIN, as there is limited documented experience with this conversion. 2.2 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate OXYCONTIN to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving OXYCONTIN to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse and misuse. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of OXYCONTIN or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the OXYCONTIN dose. Because steady-state plasma concentrations are approximated in 1 day, OXYCONTIN dosage may be adjusted every 1 to 2 days. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, the subsequent dose may be reduced. Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. There are no well-controlled clinical studies evaluating the safety and efficacy with dosing more frequently than every 12 hours. As a guideline, the total daily oxycodone dose usually can be increased by 25% to 50% of the current dose, each time an increase is clinically indicated.There are no well-controlled clinical studies evaluating the safety and efficacy with dosing more frequently than every 12 hours. As a guideline, the total daily oxycodone dose usually can be increased by 25% to 50% of the current dose, each time an increase is clinically indicated. 2.3 Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with hepatic impairment, start dosing patients at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual starting dose followed by careful dose titration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Discontinuation of OXYCONTIN When the patient no longer requires therapy with OXYCONTIN tablets, use a gradual downward titration of the dose to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient. Do not abruptly discontinue OXYCONTIN. 2.5 Administration of OXYCONTIN Instruct patients to swallow OXYCONTIN tablets intact. The tablets are not to be crushed, dissolved, or chewed due to the risk of rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Instruct patients to take OXYCONTIN one tablet at a time and with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in the mouth [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Interactions with Other CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Hypotensive Effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Gastrointestinal Effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.10 )] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Most common adverse reactions (>5%) are constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, asthenia, and sweating. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Purdue Pharma L.P. at 1-888-726-7535 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of OXYCONTIN was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received OXYCONTIN in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. OXYCONTIN may increase the risk of serious adverse reactions such as those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . The most common adverse reactions (>5%) reported by patients in clinical trials comparing OXYCONTIN with placebo are shown in Table 1 below: TABLE 1: Common Adverse Reactions (>5%) Adverse Reaction OXYCONTIN (n=227) Placebo (n=45) (%) (%) Constipation (23) (7) Nausea (23) (11) Somnolence (23) (4) Dizziness (13) (9) Pruritus (13) (2) Vomiting (12) (7) Headache (7) (7) Dry Mouth (6) (2) Asthenia (6) - Sweating (5) (2) In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with OXYCONTIN with an incidence between 1% and 5%: Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis General disorders and administration site conditions: chills, fever Metabolism and nutrition disorders: anorexia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: twitching Psychiatric disorders: abnormal dreams, anxiety, confusion, dysphoria, euphoria, insomnia, nervousness, thought abnormalities Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea, hiccups Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: rash Vascular disorders: postural hypotension The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials: Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures), edema, peripheral edema, thirst, malaise, chest pain, facial edema Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Nervous system disorders: syncope, migraine, abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypesthesia, hypotonia, paresthesia, speech disorder, stupor, tremor, vertigo, taste perversion Psychiatric disorders: depression, agitation, depersonalization, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention Reproductive system and breast disorders: impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of controlled-release oxycodone: abuse, addiction, amenorrhea, cholestasis, death, dental caries, increased hepatic enzymes, hyperalgesia, hypogonadism, hyponatremia, ileus, muscular hypertonia, overdose, palpitations (in the context of withdrawal), seizures, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and urticaria. Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in OXYCONTIN. Advise patients how to recognize such a reaction and when to seek medical attention. In addition to the events listed above, the following have also been reported, potentially due to the swelling and hydrogelling property of the tablet: choking, gagging, regurgitation, tablets stuck in the throat and difficulty swallowing the tablet.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist opioid analgesics: Avoid use with OXYCONTIN because they may reduce analgesic effect of OXYCONTIN or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CNS Depressants The concomitant use of OXYCONTIN and other CNS depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, tranquilizers, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other opioids, and alcohol can increase the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, or death. Monitor patients receiving CNS depressants and OXYCONTIN for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension. When combined therapy with any of the above medications is considered, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . 7.2 Muscle Relaxants Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of true skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Monitor patients receiving muscle relaxants and OXYCONTIN for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and 2D6 Because the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and result in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could me more pronounced with concomitant use of CYP2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. If co-administration with OXYCONTIN is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Inducers of CYP3A4 CYP450 3A4 inducers may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration with OXYCONTIN is necessary, monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved. After stopping the treatment of a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic and adverse effects, and may cause serious respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Mixed agonist/antagonist (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) and partial agonist (buprenorphine) analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics in patients receiving OXYCONTIN. 7.5 Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also lead to acute retention of urine by causing spasm of the sphincter of the bladder, particularly in men with enlarged prostates. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when OXYCONTIN is used concurrently with anticholinergic drugs.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Clinical Considerations Fetal/neonatal adverse reactions Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, such as poor feeding, diarrhea, irritability, tremor, rigidity, and seizures, and manage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. OXYCONTIN should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus. The effect of oxycodone in human reproduction has not been adequately studied. Studies with oral doses of oxycodone hydrochloride in rats up to 8 mg/kg/day and rabbits up to 125 mg/kg/day, equivalent to 0.5 and 15 times an adult human dose of 160 mg/day, respectively on a mg/m 2 basis, did not reveal evidence of harm to the fetus due to oxycodone. In a pre- and postnatal toxicity study, female rats received oxycodone during gestation and lactation. There were no long-term developmental or reproductive effects in the pups [see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.1 )]. Non-Teratogenic Effects Oxycodone hydrochloride was administered orally to female rats during gestation and lactation in a pre- and postnatal toxicity study. There were no drug-related effects on reproductive performance in these females or any long-term developmental or reproductive effects in pups born to these rats. Decreased body weight was found during lactation and the early post-weaning phase in pups nursed by mothers given the highest dose used (6 mg/kg/day, equivalent to approximately 0.4-times an adult human dose of 160 mg/day, on a mg/m 2 basis). However, body weight of these pups recovered.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers Oxycodone has been detected in breast milk. Instruct patients not to undertake nursing while receiving OXYCONTIN. Do not initiate OXYCONTIN therapy while nursing because of the possibility of sedation or respiratory depression in the infant. Withdrawal signs can occur in breast-fed infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped, or when breast-feeding is stopped.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of OXYCONTIN in pediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use In controlled pharmacokinetic studies in elderly subjects (greater than 65 years) the clearance of oxycodone was slightly reduced. Compared to young adults, the plasma concentrations of oxycodone were increased approximately 15% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Of the total number of subjects (445) in clinical studies of oxycodone hydrochloride controlled-release tablets, 148 (33.3%) were age 65 and older (including those age 75 and older) while 40 (9.0%) were age 75 and older. In clinical trials with appropriate initiation of therapy and dose titration, no untoward or unexpected adverse reactions were seen in the elderly patients who received oxycodone hydrochloride controlled-release tablets. Thus, the usual doses and dosing intervals may be appropriate for elderly patients. However, reduce the starting dose to 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage in debilitated, non-opioid-tolerant patients. Respiratory depression is the chief risk in elderly or debilitated patients, usually the result of large initial doses in patients who are not tolerant to opioids, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dose of OXYCONTIN cautiously in these patients.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdosage with OXYCONTIN can be manifested by respiratory depression, somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, constricted pupils, and in some cases, pulmonary edema, bradycardia, hypotension, partial or complete airway obstruction, atypical snoring and death. Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to severe hypoxia in overdose situations. Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose, priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation if needed. Employ other supportive measures (including oxygen, vasopressors) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated. Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life support techniques. The opioid antagonists, naloxone or nalmefene, are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose. Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to oxycodone overdose. Such agents should be administered cautiously to persons who are known, or suspected to be physically dependent on OXYCONTIN. In such cases, an abrupt or complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. Because the duration of reversal would be expected to be less than the duration of action of oxycodone in OXYCONTIN, carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably reestablished. OXYCONTIN will continue to release oxycodone and add to the oxycodone load for 24 to 48 hours or longer following ingestion necessitating prolonged monitoring. If the response to opioid antagonists is suboptimal or not sustained, additional antagonist should be administered as directed in the product’s prescribing information. In an individual physically dependent on opioids, administration of the usual dose of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered. If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient, administration of the antagonist should be begun with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose, parallel group, two-week study was conducted in 133 patients with persistent, moderate to severe pain, who were judged as having inadequate pain control with their current therapy. In this study, OXYCONTIN 20 mg, but not 10 mg, was statistically significant in pain reduction compared with placebo.

SPL TEXT:
OxyContin oxycodone hydrochloride BUTYLATED HYDROXYTOLUENE HYPROMELLOSES POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 400 POLYETHYLENE GLYCOLS MAGNESIUM STEARATE TITANIUM DIOXIDE POLYSORBATE 80 FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW OXYCODONE HYDROCHLORIDE OXYCODONE 40;OP