DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
DESCRIPTION This Product is a topical preparation containing 28.5% salicylic acid extended release in a proprietary film-forming virucidal solution composed of acrylates copolymer, butyl acetate, carthamus tinctorius seed oil, cocamidopropyl dimethylamine, ethylhexylglycerin, isopropyl alcohol, isopropyl-metacresol, olea europaea fruit oil, phenic acid, phenoxyethanol, polysorbate 80, polyvinyl butyral, trimethyl pentanyl diisobutyrate, and water. The pharmacologic activity of the Product is generally attributed to the keratolytic activity of salicylic acid, which is incorporated into a polyacrylic, film-forming virucidal solution designed to cover the wart without the need for a bandage. The structural formula of salicylic acid is: 5-01.jpg

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mode of action for salicylic acid in the treatment of warts is unknown, its activity appears to be associated with its keratolytic action, which results in mechanical removal of epidermal cells infected with wart viruses. This Product incorporates a unique patented extended release form of salicylic acid that provides for enhanced release of salicylic acid for over 24 hours. The virucidal complex incorporated into this Products proprietary solution is designed to help reduce risk of reinfection at the wart site, as well as prevent viral contamination of the product under normal usage.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This Product is indicated for the topical treatment and removal of common warts and plantar warts.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with diabetes or impaired blood circulation should not use the Product. This Product also should not be used on moles, birthmarks, and unusual warts with hair growing from them, or warts on the face.

PRECAUTIONS:
PRECAUTIONS This Product is for external use only. Do not permit it to contact eyes or mucous membranes. If contact with eyes or mucous membranes occurs, immediately flush with water for 15 minutes. The Product should not be allowed to contact normal skin surrounding the wart site, since localized irritation may occur. Treatment should be discontinued if excessive irritation occurs. The Product is flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. Keep bottle tightly capped when not in use.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to applying the Product, soak wart in warm water for five minutes. Remove any loose tissue by gently rubbing with a washcloth, emery board, or pumice stone. Dry the wart site thoroughly. Using the brush applicator supplied, apply it twice to the entire wart surface, allowing the first application to dry before applying the second. Continue treatment once or twice a day as directed by your healthcare provider. Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin. Clinically visible improvement normally occurs during the first or second week of therapy. Resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of the Product use, though some warts may take longer to remove.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
ADVERSE REACTIONS A localized irritant reaction may occur if this Product is applied to the normal skin surrounding the wart. Any irritation may normally be controlled by temporarily discontinuing use and by applying the medication only to the wart site when treatment is resumed.

SPL TEXT:
28.5% Salicylic Acid salicylic acid salicylic acid salicylic acid