DRUG NAME: Sumatriptan
GENERIC NAME: SUMATRIPTAN
MANUFACTURER: Caplin Steriles Limited
ROUTE: SUBCUTANEOUS

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Sumatriptan injection, USP contains sumatriptan succinate, a selective 5-HT 1B/1D receptor agonist. Sumatriptan succinate is chemically designated as 3-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-N-methyl-indole-5-methanesulfonamide succinate (1:1), and it has the following structure: The empirical formula is C 14 H 21 N 3 O 2 S•C 4 H 6 O 4 , representing a molecular weight of 413.5. Sumatriptan succinate is a white to off-white powder that is readily soluble in water and in saline. Sumatriptan injection, USP is a clear, colorless to pale yellow, sterile, nonpyrogenic solution for subcutaneous injection. Each 0.5 mL of sumatriptan injection USP, 12 mg/mL solution contains 8.4 mg of sumatriptan succinate equivalent to 6 mg of sumatriptan and 3.5 mg of sodium chloride, USP in water for injection, USP. The pH range of the solution is approximately 4.2 to 5.3. The osmolality of the injection is 291 mOsmol. sumatriptan-image01

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Sumatriptan binds with high affinity to human cloned 5-HT 1B/1D receptors. Sumatriptan presumably exerts its therapeutic effects in the treatment of migraine and cluster headaches through agonist effects at the 5-HT 1B/1D receptors on intracranial blood vessels and sensory nerves of the trigeminal system, which result in cranial vessel constriction and inhibition of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis, has been reported in patients with and without a history of hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Peripheral (Small) Arteries In healthy volunteers (N = 18), a trial evaluating the effects of sumatriptan on peripheral (small vessel) arterial reactivity failed to detect a clinically significant increase in peripheral resistance. Heart Rate Transient increases in blood pressure observed in some patients in clinical trials carried out during sumatriptan’s development as a treatment for migraine were not accompanied by any clinically significant changes in heart rate. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The bioavailability of sumatriptan via subcutaneous site injection to 18 healthy male subjects was 97% ± 16% of that obtained following intravenous injection. After a single 6-mg subcutaneous manual injection into the deltoid area of the arm in 18 healthy males (age: 24 ± 6 years, weight: 70 kg), the maximum serum concentration (C max ) of sumatriptan was (mean ± standard deviation) 74 ± 15 ng/mL and the time to peak concentration (T max ) was 12 minutes after injection (range: 5 to 20 minutes). In this trial, the same dose injected subcutaneously in the thigh gave a C max of 61 ± 15 ng/mL by manual injection versus 52 ± 15 ng/mL by autoinjector techniques. The T max or amount absorbed was not significantly altered by either the site or technique of injection. Distribution Protein binding, determined by equilibrium dialysis over the concentration range of 10 to 1,000 ng/mL is low, approximately 14% to 21%. The effect of sumatriptan on the protein binding of other drugs has not been evaluated. Following a 6-mg subcutaneous injection into the deltoid area of the arm in 9 males (mean age: 33 years, mean weight: 77 kg) the volume of distribution central compartment of sumatriptan was 50 ± 8 liters and the distribution half-life was 15 ± 2 minutes. Metabolism In vitro studies with human microsomes suggest that sumatriptan is metabolized by MAO, predominantly the A isoenzyme. Most of a radiolabeled dose of sumatriptan excreted in the urine is the major metabolite indole acetic acid (IAA) or the IAA glucuronide, both of which are inactive. Elimination After a single 6-mg subcutaneous dose, 22% ± 4% was excreted in the urine as unchanged sumatriptan and 38% ± 7% as the IAA metabolite. Following a 6-mg subcutaneous injection into the deltoid area of the arm, the systemic clearance of sumatriptan was 1,194 ± 149 mL/min and the terminal half-life was 115 ± 19 minutes. Specific Populations Age: The pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan in the elderly (mean age: 72 years, 2 males and 4 females) and in subjects with migraine (mean age: 38 years, 25 males and 155 females) were similar to that in healthy male subjects (mean age: 30 years). Patients with Hepatic Impairment: The effect of mild to moderate hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneously administered sumatriptan has been evaluated. There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneously administered sumatriptan in moderately hepatically impaired subjects compared with healthy controls. The pharmacokinetics of subcutaneously administered sumatriptan in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied. The use of sumatriptan injection in this population is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Racial Groups: The systemic clearance and C max of subcutaneous sumatriptan were similar in black (n = 34) and Caucasian (n = 38) healthy male subjects. Drug Interaction Studies Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors: In a trial of 14 healthy females, pretreatment with an MAO-A inhibitor decreased the clearance of subcutaneous sumatriptan, resulting in a 2-fold increase in the area under the sumatriptan plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), corresponding to a 40% increase in elimination half-life.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Sumatriptan binds with high affinity to human cloned 5-HT 1B/1D receptors. Sumatriptan presumably exerts its therapeutic effects in the treatment of migraine and cluster headaches through agonist effects at the 5-HT 1B/1D receptors on intracranial blood vessels and sensory nerves of the trigeminal system, which result in cranial vessel constriction and inhibition of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan Injection, USP is indicated in adults for (1) the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, and (2) the acute treatment of cluster headache. Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with Sumatriptan Injection reconsider the diagnosis before Sumatriptan Injection is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Sumatriptan Injection is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks or cluster headache attacks. Sumatriptan injection, USP is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: • Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults (1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults (1) Limitations of Use : • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established (1) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or History of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)]. • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. • Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) • Hypersensitivity to Sumatriptan Injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) • Severe hepatic impairment (4)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous use only (2.1) • Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 1 to 6 mg (2.1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour (2.1) • Patients receiving doses other than 4 or 6 mg: Use the 6-mg single-dose vial (2.3) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of Sumatriptan injection, USP for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, lower doses (1 mg to 5 mg) may be used [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. For the treatment of cluster headache, the efficacy of lower doses has not been established. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in 24 hours is 12 mg, two 6 mg injections separated by at least 1 hour. A second 6-mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed. 2.3 Administration of Doses of Sumatriptan Other than 4 or 6 mg In patients receiving doses other than 4mg or 6 mg, use the 6-mg single-dose vial; Visually inspect the vial for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Do not use if particulates and discolorations are noted.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: · Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] · Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] · Chest, throat, neck, and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] · Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] · Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] · Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] · Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] · Increase in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] · Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] · Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (≥5% and >placebo) were injection site reactions, tingling, dizziness/vertigo, warm/hot sensation, burning sensation, feeling of heaviness, pressure sensation, flushing, feeling of tightness, and numbness (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Caplin Steriles Limited at 1-866-978-6111 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Migraine Headache Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in 2 U.S. placebo-controlled clinical trials in patients with migraines (Studies 2 and 3) following either a single 6 mg dose of sumatriptan injection or placebo. Only reactions that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more in groups treated with sumatriptan injection 6 mg and that occurred at a frequency greater than the placebo group are included in Table 1. Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials in Patients with Migraine (Studies 2 and 3) Adverse Reaction Sumatriptan Injection 6 mg Subcutaneous (n = 547)% Placebo (n = 370)% Atypical sensations Tingling Warm/hot sensation Burning sensation Feeling of heaviness Pressure sensation Feeling of tightness Numbness Feeling strange Tight feeling in head 42 14 11 7 7 7 5 5 2 2 9 3 4 <1 1 2 <1 2 <1 <1 Cardiovascular Flushing Chest discomfort Tightness in chest Pressure in chest 7 5 3 2 2 1 <1 <1 Ear, nose and throat throat discomfort discomfort: nasal cavity/sinuses 3 2 <1 <1 Injection site reaction a 59 24 Miscellaneous Jaw discomfort 2 0 Musculoskeletal Weakness Neck pain/stiffness Myalgia 5 5 2 <1 <1 <1 Neurological Dizziness/vertigo Drowsiness/sedation Headache 12 3 2 4 2 <1 Skin Sweating 2 1 a Includes injection site pain, stinging/burning, swelling, erythema, bruising, bleeding. The incidence of adverse reactions in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse reactions. Cluster Headache In the controlled clinical trials assessing the efficacy of sumatriptan injection as a treatment for cluster headache (Studies 4 and 5), no new significant adverse reactions were detected that had not already been identified in trials of sumatriptan in patients with migraine. Overall, the frequency of adverse reactions reported in the trials of cluster headache was generally lower than in the migraine trials. Exceptions include reports of paresthesia (5% sumatriptan injection, 0% placebo), nausea and vomiting (4% sumatriptan injection, 0% placebo), and bronchospasm (1% sumatriptan injection, 0% placebo). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of sumatriptan tablets, sumatriptan nasal spray, and sumatriptan injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular Hypotension, palpitations. Neurological Dystonia, tremor.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-Containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and sumatriptan injection within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 2-fold. Therefore, the use of Sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of Sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors /Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Data from a prospective pregnancy exposure registry and epidemiological studies of pregnant women have not detected an increased frequency of birth defects or a consistent pattern of birth defects among women exposed to sumatriptan compared with the general population (see Data). In developmental toxicity studies in rats and rabbits, oral administration of sumatriptan to pregnant animals was associated with embryolethality, fetal abnormalities, and pup mortality. When administered by the intravenous route to pregnant rabbits, sumatriptan was embryolethal (see Data). In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. The reported rate of major birth defects among deliveries to women with migraine ranged from 2.2% to 2.9% and the reported rate of miscarriage was 17%, which were similar to rates reported in women without migraine. Clinical Considerations Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk: Several studies have suggested that women with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia during pregnancy. Data Human Data: The Sumatriptan/Naratriptan/Treximet (sumatriptan and naproxen sodium) Pregnancy Registry, a population-based international prospective study, collected data for sumatriptan from January 1996 to September 2012. The Registry documented outcomes of 626 infants and foetuses exposed to sumatriptan during pregnancy (528 with earliest exposure during the first trimester, 78 during the second trimester, 16 during the third trimester, and 4 unknown). The occurrence of major birth defects (excluding fetal deaths and induced abortions without reported defects and all spontaneous pregnancy losses) during first-trimester exposure to sumatriptan was 4.2% (20/478 [95% CI: 2.6% to 6.5%]) and during any trimester of exposure was 4.2% (24/576 [95% CI: 2.7% to 6.2%]). The sample size in this study had 80% power to detect at least a 1.73- to 1.91-fold increase in the rate of major malformations. The number of exposed pregnancy outcomes accumulated during the registry was insufficient to support definitive conclusions about overall malformation risk or for making comparisons of the frequencies of specific birth defects. Of the 20 infants with reported birth defects after exposure to sumatriptan in the first trimester, 4 infants had ventricular septal defects, including one infant who was exposed to both sumatriptan and naratriptan, and 3 infants had pyloric stenosis. No other birth defect was reported for more than 2 infants in this group. In a study using data from the Swedish Medical Birth Register, live births to women who reported using triptans or ergots during pregnancy were compared with those of women who did not. Of the 2,257 births with first-trimester exposure to sumatriptan, 107 infants were born with malformations (relative risk 0.99 [95% CI: 0.91 to 1.21]). A study using linked data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway to the Norwegian Prescription Database compared pregnancy outcomes in women who redeemed prescriptions for triptans during pregnancy, as well as a migraine disease comparison group who redeemed prescriptions for sumatriptan before pregnancy only, compared with a population control group. Of the 415 women who redeemed prescriptions for sumatriptan during the first trimester, 15 had infants with major congenital malformations (OR 1.16 [95% CI: 0.69 to 1.94]) while for the 364 women who redeemed prescriptions for sumatriptan before, but not during, pregnancy, 20 had infants with major congenital malformations (OR 1.83 [95% CI: 1.17 to 2.88]), each compared with the population comparison group. Additional smaller observational studies evaluating use of sumatriptan during pregnancy have not suggested an increased risk of teratogenicity. Animal Data: Oral administration of sumatriptan to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of fetal blood vessel (cervicothoracic and umbilical) abnormalities. The highest no-effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rats was 60 mg/kg/day. Oral administration of sumatriptan to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in increased incidences of embryolethality and fetal cervicothoracic vascular and skeletal abnormalities. Intravenous administration of sumatriptan to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of embryolethality. The highest oral and intravenous no-effect doses for developmental toxicity in rabbits were 15 and 0.75 mg/kg/day, respectively. Oral administration of sumatriptan to rats prior to and throughout gestation resulted in embryofetal toxicity (decreased body weight, decreased ossification, increased incidence of skeletal abnormalities). The highest no-effect dose was 50 mg/kg/day. In offspring of pregnant rats treated orally with sumatriptan during organogenesis, there was a decrease in pup survival. The highest no-effect dose for this effect was 60 mg/kg/day. Oral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan during the latter part of gestation and throughout lactation resulted in a decrease in pup survival. The highest no-effect dose for this finding was 100 mg/kg/day.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. sumatriptan injection is not recommended for use in patients younger than 18 years of age. Two controlled clinical trials evaluated sumatriptan nasal spray (5 to 20 mg) in 1,248 pediatric migraineurs aged 12 to 17 years who treated a single attack. The trials did not establish the efficacy of sumatriptan nasal spray compared with placebo in the treatment of migraine in pediatric patients. Adverse reactions observed in these clinical trials were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults. Five controlled clinical trials (2 single-attack trials, 3 multiple-attack trials) evaluating oral sumatriptan (25 to 100 mg) in pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years enrolled a total of 701 pediatric migraineurs. These trials did not establish the efficacy of oral sumatriptan compared with placebo in the treatment of migraine in pediatric patients. Adverse reactions observed in these clinical trials were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults. The frequency of all adverse reactions in these patients appeared to be both dose- and age dependent, with younger patients reporting reactions more commonly than older pediatric patients. Postmarketing experience documents that serious adverse reactions have occurred in the pediatric population after use of subcutaneous, oral, and/or intranasal sumatriptan. These reports include reactions similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults, including stroke, visual loss, and death. A myocardial infarction has been reported in a 14-year-old male following the use of oral sumatriptan; clinical signs occurred within 1 day of drug administration. Clinical data to determine the frequency of serious adverse reactions in pediatric patients who might receive subcutaneous, oral, or intranasal sumatriptan are not presently available.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of sumatriptan injection did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. A cardiovascular evaluation is recommended for geriatric patients who have other cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving sumatriptan injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Coronary vasospasm was observed after intravenous administration of sumatriptan injection [see Contraindications (4)]. Overdoses would be expected from animal data (dogs at 0.1 g/kg, rats at 2 g/kg) to possibly cause convulsions, tremor, inactivity, erythema of the extremities, reduced respiratory rate, cyanosis, ataxia, mydriasis, injection site reactions (desquamation, hair loss, and scab formation), and paralysis. The elimination half-life of sumatriptan is about 2 hours [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] ; therefore, monitoring of patients after overdose with sumatriptan injection should continue for at least 10 hours or while symptoms or signs persist. It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentrations of sumatriptan.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Migraine In controlled clinical trials enrolling more than 1,000 patients during migraine attacks who were experiencing moderate or severe pain and 1 or more of the symptoms enumerated in Table 3, onset of relief began as early as 10 minutes following a 6-mg sumatriptan injection. Lower doses of sumatriptan injection may also prove effective, although the proportion of patients obtaining adequate relief was decreased and the latency to that relief is greater with lower doses. In Study 1, 6 different doses of Sumatriptan injection (n = 30 each group) were compared with placebo (n = 62) in a single-attack, parallel-group design; the dose-response relationship was found to be as shown in Table 2. Table 2: Proportion of Patients with Migraine Relief and Incidence of Adverse Reactions by Time and by Dose of Sumatriptan in Study 1 Dose of Sumatriptan Injection Percent patients with relief a Adverse Reactions Incidence (%) at 10 Minutes at 30 Minutes at 1 hours at 2 hours Placebo 1 mg 2 mg 3 mg 4 mg 6 mg 8 mg 5 10 7 17 13 10 23 15 40 23 47 37 63 57 24 43 57 57 50 73 80 21 40 43 60 57 70 83 55 63 63 77 80 83 93 a Relief is defined as the reduction of moderate or severe pain to no or mild pain after dosing without use of rescue medication. In 2 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of sumatriptan injection 6 mg in 1,104 patients with moderate or severe migraine pain (Studies 2 and 3), the onset of relief was less than 10 minutes. Headache relief, as defined by a reduction in pain from severe or moderately severe to mild or no headache, was achieved in 70% of the patients within 1 hour of a single 6-mg subcutaneous dose of sumatriptan injection. Approximately 82% and 65% of patients treated with sumatriptan 6 mg had headache relief and were pain free within 2 hours, respectively. Table 3 shows the 1- and 2-hour efficacy results for Sumatriptan injection 6 mg in Studies 2 and 3. Table 3: Proportion of Patients with Pain Relief and Relief of Migraine Symptoms after 1 and 2 Hours of Treatment in Studies 2 and 3 1 hour data Study 2 Study 3 Placebo (n=190) Sumatriptan 6 mg (n=384) Placebo (n=180) Sumatriptan 6 mg (n=350) Patients with pain relief (grade 0/1) patients with no pain Patients without nausea Patients without photophobia Patients with little or no clinical disability b 18% 5% 48% 23% 34% 70% a 48% a 73% a 56% a 76% a 26% 13% 50% 25% 34% 70% a 49% a 73% a 58% a 76% a 2-Hour Data Study 2 Study 3 placebo c Sumatriptan 6 mg d placebo c Sumatriptan 6 mg d Patients with pain relief (grade 0/1) Patients with no pain Patients without nausea Patients without photophobia Patients with little or no clinical disability b 31% 11% 56% 31% 42% 81% a 63% a 82% a 72% a 85% a 39% 19% 63% 35% 49% 82% a 65% a 81% a 71% a 84% a a P<0.05 versus placebo. b A successful outcome in terms of clinical disability was defined prospectively as ability to work mildly impaired or ability to work and function normally. c Includes patients that may have received an additional placebo injection 1 hour after the initial injection. d Includes patient that may have received an additional 6 mg of sumatriptan injection 1 hour after the initial injection. Sumatriptan injection also relieved photophobia, phonophobia (sound sensitivity), nausea, and vomiting associated with migraine attacks. The efficacy of sumatriptan injection was unaffected by whether or not the migraine was associated with aura, duration of attack, gender or age of the patient, or concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs (e.g., beta-blockers). 14.2 Cluster Headache The efficacy of sumatriptan injection in the acute treatment of cluster headache was demonstrated in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period crossover trials (Studies 4 and 5). Patients aged 21 to 65 years were enrolled and were instructed to treat a moderate to very severe headache within 10 minutes of onset. Headache relief was defined as a reduction in headache severity to mild or no pain. In both trials, the proportion of individuals gaining relief at 10 or 15 minutes was significantly greater among patients receiving 6 mg of sumatriptan injection compared with those who received placebo (see Table 4). Table 4: Proportion of Patients with Cluster Headache Relief by Time in Studies 4 and 5 Study 4 Study 5 Placebo (n = 39) Sumatriptan 6 mg (n = 39) Placebo (n = 88) Sumatriptan 6 mg (n = 92) patients with pain relief (no/mild) 5 minutes post-injection 10 minutes post-injection 15 minutes post injection 8% 10% 26% 21% 49% a 74% a 7% 25% 35% 23% a 49% a 75% a a P<0.05. (n = Number of headaches treated.) An estimate of the cumulative probability of a subject with a cluster headache obtaining relief after being treated with either sumatriptan injection or placebo is presented in Figure 1. Figure 1: Time to Relief of Cluster Headache from Time of Injection a a The figure uses Kaplan-Meier (product limit) Survivorship Plot. Patients taking rescue medication were censored at 15 minutes. The plot was constructed with data from patients who either experienced relief or did not require (request) rescue medication within a period of 2 hours following treatment. As a consequence, the data in the plot are derived from only a subset of the 258 headaches treated (rescue medication was required in 52 of the 127 placebo-treated headaches and 18 of the 131 headaches treated with sumatriptan injection). Other data suggest that treatment with sumatriptan injection is not associated with an increase in early recurrence of headache and has little effect on the incidence of later-occurring headaches (i.e., those occurring after 2, but before 18 or 24 hours). sumatriptan-image02

SPL TEXT:
Sumatriptan Sumatriptan SUMATRIPTAN SUCCINATE SUMATRIPTAN SODIUM CHLORIDE WATER clear, colorless to pale yellow