DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
DESCRIPTION Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen is supplied in liquid form for oral administration. WARNING: May be habit-forming (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers , and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Hydrocodone bitartrate is an opioid analgesic and antitussive and occurs as fine, white crystals or as a crystalline powder. It is affected by light. The chemical name is 4,5α- epoxy-3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one tartrate (1:1) hydrate (2:5). It has the following structural formula: C 18 H 21 NO 3 • C 4 H 6 O 6 • 2½ H 2 O M.W. 494.490 Acetaminophen, 4’-hydroxyacetanilide, a slightly bitter, white, odorless, crystalline powder, is a non-opiate, non-salicylate analgesic and antipyretic. It has the following structural formula: C 8 H 9 NO 2 MW = 151.16 Hycet contains: Per 5 mL Per 15 mL Hydrocodone Bitartrate .......................... 2.5 mg 7.5 mg Acetaminophen .......................... 108.0 mg 325.0 mg Alcohol .......................... 7 % 7 % In addition, the liquid contains the following inactive ingredients: citric acid anhydrous, ethyl maltol, glycerin, methylparaben, propylene glycol, propylparaben, purified water, saccharin sodium, sorbitol solution, sucrose, with D&C Red #33 and FD&C Red #40 as coloring and natural and artificial flavoring. hydrocodone bitartrate chemical structure acetaminophen chemical structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine. Most of these involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle. The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known, although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system. In addition to analgesia, narcotics may produce drowsiness, changes in mood and mental clouding. The analgesic action of acetaminophen involves peripheral influences, but the specific mechanism is as yet undetermined. Antipyretic activity is mediated through hypothalamic heat regulating centers. Acetaminophen inhibits prostaglandin synthetase. Therapeutic doses of acetaminophen have negligible effects on the cardiovascular or respiratory systems; however, toxic doses may cause circulatory failure and rapid, shallow breathing. Pharmacokinetics The behavior of the individual components is described below. Hydrocodone Following a 10 mg oral dose of hydrocodone administered to five adult male subjects, the mean peak concentration was 23.6 ± 5.2 ng/mL. Maximum serum levels were achieved at 1.3 ± 0.3 hours and the half-life was determined to be 3.8 ± 0.3 hours. Hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism including O-demethylation, N-demethylation and 6-keto reduction to the corresponding 6-α- and 6-β-hydroxymetabolites. See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information. Acetaminophen Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues. The plasma half-life is 1.25 to 3 hours, but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage. Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism (conjugation) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites. Approximately 85% of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration, most as the glucuronide conjugate, with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug. See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hycet (hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution) is indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to hydrocodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of this product. Patients known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross-sensitivity to hydrocodone.

BOXED WARNING:
HEPATOTOXICITY ACETAMINOPHEN HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH CASES OF ACUTE LIVER FAILURE, AT TIMES RESULTING IN LIVER TRANSPLANT AND DEATH. MOST OF THE CASES OF LIVER INJURY ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF ACETAMINOPHEN AT DOSES THAT EXCEED 4000 MILLIGRAMS PER DAY, AND OFTEN INVOLVE MORE THAN ONE ACETAMINOPHEN-CONTAINING PRODUCT.

WARNINGS:
WARNING HEPATOTOXICITY ACETAMINOPHEN HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH CASES OF ACUTE LIVER FAILURE, AT TIMES RESULTING IN LIVER TRANSPLANT AND DEATH. MOST OF THE CASES OF LIVER INJURY ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF ACETAMINOPHEN AT DOSES THAT EXCEED 4000 MILLIGRAMS PER DAY, AND OFTEN INVOLVE MORE THAN ONE ACETAMINOPHEN-CONTAINING PRODUCT.

PRECAUTIONS:
PRECAUTIONS General Special Risk Patients As with any narcotic analgesic agent, Hycet should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients, and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function, hypothyroidism, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture. The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind. Cough Reflex Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex; as with all narcotics, caution should be exercised when Hycet is used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease. Information for Patients/Caregivers • Do not take Hycet if you are allergic to any of its ingredients. • If you develop signs of allergy such as a rash or difficulty breathing, stop taking Hycet and contact your healthcare provider immediately. • Do not take more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day. Call your doctor if you took more than the recommended dose. Hydrocodone, like all narcotics, may impair mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Such tasks should be avoided while taking this product. Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression, when taken with this combination product, and should be avoided. Hydrocodone may be habit-forming. Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed, in the amounts prescribed, and no more frequently than prescribed. Physicians should instruct patients and caregivers to read the patient information leaflet, which appears as the last section of the labeling. Laboratory Tests In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease, effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and/or renal function tests. Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Acetaminophen may produce false-positive test results for urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether hydrocodone has a potential for carcinogenesis, mutagenesis, or impairment of fertility. Hydrocodone has not demonstrated mutagenic potential using the Ames Salmonella-Microsomal Activation test, the Basc test on Drosophila germ cells, and the Micronucleus test on mouse bone marrow. No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen has a potential for carcinogenesis, mutagenesis, or impairment of fertility. Acetaminophen has not demonstrated mutagenic potential using the Ames Salmonella-Microsomal Activation test, the Basc test on Drosophila germ cells, and the Micronucleus test on mouse bone marrow. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Hycet should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic Effects Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting and fever. These signs usually appear during the first few days of life. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal. Labor and Delivery Narcotic analgesics cross the placental barrier. The closer to delivery and the larger the dose used, the greater the possibility of respiratory depression in the newborn. Narcotic analgesics should be avoided during labor if delivery of a premature infant is anticipated. If the mother has received narcotic analgesics during labor, newborn infants should be observed closely for signs of respiratory depression. Resuscitation may be required (see OVERDOSAGE ). The effect of hydrocodone, if any, on the later growth, development, and functional maturation of the child is unknown. Nursing Mothers Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts, but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known. It is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone and acetaminophen, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population below the age of two years have not been established. Use of Hycet in the pediatric population is supported by the evidence from adequate and well controlled studies of hydrocodone and acetaminophen combination products in adults with additional data which support the development of metabolic pathways in children two years of age and over (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for pediatric dosage information). Geriatric Use Clinical studies of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Hydrocodone and the major metabolites of acetaminophen are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney. Thus the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function due to the accumulation of the parent compound and/or metabolites in the plasma. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. Hydrocodone may cause confusion and over-sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution and observed closely.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to severity of the pain and the response of the patient. However, it should be kept in mind that tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related. The usual adult dosage is one tablespoonful every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The total daily dosage for adults should not exceed 6 tablespoonfuls. The usual dosages for children are given by the table below, and are to be given every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. These dosages correspond to an average individual dose of 0.27 mL/kg of Hycet (providing 0.135 mg/kg of hydrocodone bitartrate and 5.85 mg/kg of acetaminophen). Dosing should be based on weight whenever possible. BODY WEIGHT APPROXIMATE AGE DOSE every 4 to 6 hours MAXIMUM TOTAL DAILY DOSE (6 doses per day) 12 to 15 kg 27 to 34 lbs. 2 to 3 years ¾ teaspoonful = 3.75 mL 4½ teaspoonfuls =22.5 mL 16 to 22 kg 35 to 50 lbs. 4 to 6 years 1 teaspoonful = 5 mL 6 teaspoonfuls = 30 mL 23 to 31 kg 51 to 69 lbs. 7 to 9 years 1½ teaspoonfuls = 7.5 mL 9 teaspoonfuls = 45 mL 32 to 45 kg 70 to 100 lbs. 10 to 13 years 2 teaspoonfuls = 10 mL 12 teaspoonfuls = 60 mL 46 kg and up 101 lbs. and up 14 years to adult 1 Tablespoonful = 15 mL 6 Tablespoonfuls = 90 mL The total daily dosage for children should not exceed 6 doses per day. It is of utmost importance that the dose of Hycet be administered accurately. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device, especially when one-half or three-fourths of a teaspoonful is to be measured. Given the inexactitude of the household spoon measure and the possibility of using a tablespoon instead of a teaspoon, which could lead to overdosage, it is strongly recommended that care givers obtain and use a calibrated measuring device. Health care providers should recommend a dropper that can measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately, and instruct care givers to use extreme caution in measuring the dosage.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
ADVERSE REACTIONS To request medical information or to report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Éclat Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. at 877-622-2320 or FDA at 1-800-FDA 1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Potential effects of high dosage are also listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Cardio-renal: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, circulatory collapse, renal toxicity, renal tubular necrosis, hypotension. Central Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dysphoria, euphoria, fear, general malaise, impairment of mental and physical performance, lethargy, light-headedness, mental clouding, mood changes, psychological dependence, sedation, somnolence progressing to stupor or coma. Endocrine: Hypoglycemic coma. Gastrointestinal System: Abdominal pain, constipation, gastric distress, heartburn, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, occult blood loss, nausea, peptic ulcer, and vomiting. Genitourinary System: Spasm of vesical sphincters, ureteral spasm, and urinary retention. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, iron deficiency anemia, prolonged bleeding time, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions. Musculoskeletal: Skeletal muscle flaccidity. Respiratory Depression: Acute airway obstruction, apnea, dose-related respiratory depression (see OVERDOSAGE ), shortness of breath. Special Senses: Cases of hearing impairment or permanent loss have been reported predominantly in patients with chronic overdose. Skin: Cold and clammy skin, diaphoresis, pruritus, rash.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Hycet should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic Effects Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting and fever. These signs usually appear during the first few days of life. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal.

NURSING MOTHERS:
Nursing Mothers Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts, but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known. It is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone and acetaminophen, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.

PEDIATRIC USE:
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population below the age of two years have not been established. Use of Hycet in the pediatric population is supported by the evidence from adequate and well controlled studies of hydrocodone and acetaminophen combination products in adults with additional data which support the development of metabolic pathways in children two years of age and over (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for pediatric dosage information).

GERIATRIC USE:
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Hydrocodone and the major metabolites of acetaminophen are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney. Thus the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function due to the accumulation of the parent compound and/or metabolites in the plasma. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. Hydrocodone may cause confusion and over-sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solution and observed closely.

OVERDOSAGE:
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage, toxicity may result from hydrocodone or acetaminophen. Signs and Symptoms Hydrocodone : Serious overdose with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression (a decrease in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, Cheyne-Stokes respiration, cyanosis), extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension. In severe overdosage, apnea, circulatory collapse, cardiac arrest and death may occur. Acetaminophen : In acetaminophen overdosage: dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect. Renal tubular necrosis, hypoglycemic coma and coagulation defects may also occur. Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include: nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis and general malaise. Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post-ingestion. Treatment A single or multiple drug overdose with hydrocodone and acetaminophen is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose, and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended. Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption. Oxygen, intravenous fluids, vasopressors, and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated. Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered. For hydrocodone overdose, primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation. The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics, including hydrocodone. Since the duration of action of hydrocodone may exceed that of the antagonist, the patient should be kept under continued surveillance, and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration. A narcotic antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression. Gastric decontamination with activated charcoal should be administered just prior to N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to decrease systemic absorption if acetaminophen ingestion is known or suspected to have occurred within a few hours of presentation. Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained immediately if the patient presents 4 hours or more after ingestion to assess potential risk of hepatotoxicity; acetaminophen levels drawn less than 4 hours post-ingestion may be misleading. To obtain the best possible outcome, NAC should be administered as soon as possible where impending or evolving liver injury is suspected. Intravenous NAC may be administered when circumstances preclude oral administration. Vigorous supportive therapy is required in severe intoxication. Procedures to limit the continuing absorption of the drug must be readily performed since the hepatic injury is dose dependent and occurs early in the course of intoxication.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
STORAGE Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. PHARMACIST: Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container with a child-resistant closure. A Schedule CIII Narcotic. Distributed by: Éclat Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. Chesterfield, MO 63005 www.eclatpharma.com To request medical information or to report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Éclat Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. at 877-622-2320.

SPL TEXT:
Hycet hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen HYDROCODONE BITARTRATE HYDROCODONE ACETAMINOPHEN ACETAMINOPHEN ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID D&C RED NO. 33 ETHYL MALTOL FD&C RED NO. 40 GLYCERIN METHYLPARABEN PROPYLENE GLYCOL PROPYLPARABEN SACCHARIN SODIUM SORBITOL SUCROSE WATER