DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION FURADANTIN contains nitrofurantoin, a synthetic nitrofuran antibacterial agent specific for urinary tract infections. The chemical name is 1-[[(5-nitro-2-furanyl)methylene]amino]-2,4-imidazolidinedione monohydrate. The molecular formula is C 8 H 6 N 4 O 5 ꞏH 2 O and the molecular weight is 256.17. The structural formula is: Nitrofurantoin is a stable, yellow, crystalline compound. FURADANTIN is available as an opaque, yellow liquid suspension for oral administration containing 25 mg/5 mL and 50 mg/5 mL of nitrofurantoin. FURADANTIN also contains the following inactive ingredients: carboxymethylcellulose sodium, citric acid, flavors, glycerin, magnesium aluminum silicate, methylparaben, propylparaben, purified water, sodium citrate, and sorbitol. furadantin-struct.jpg

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Nitrofurantoin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology (12.4) ]. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamic effects of FURADANTIN are unknown. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Orally administered FURADANTIN is readily absorbed. Blood concentrations at therapeutic dosage are usually low. Effect of Food The presence of food or agents delaying gastric emptying can increase the bioavailability of FURADANTIN. Distribution Nitrofurantoin is highly soluble in urine. Nitrofurantoin lacks the broader tissue distribution of other therapeutic agents approved for urinary tract infections. Elimination Excretion Nitrofurantoin is rapidly excreted in urine, to which it may impart a brown color. Following a dose regimen of 100 mg four times a day for 7 days, average urinary drug recoveries (0 hour to 24 hours) on Day 1 and Day 7 were 42.7% and 43.6%. Nitrofurantoin is dialyzable. Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of FURADANTIN are unknown for the geriatric patients, pediatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, or pregnant women. Differences between male and female patients, and racial or ethnic groups are unknown. Patients with Renal Impairment The reported urinary recoveries of nitrofurantoin after a single 100 mg oral dose and 100 mg four times a day in patients with varying renal function showed approximate linear relationship between the amount of nitrofurantoin recovered and creatinine clearance. Drug Interaction Studies Antacids such as magnesium trisilicate In a cross-over study, the in vivo absorption characteristics of nitrofurantoin and nitrofurantoin-magnesium trisilicate combination were evaluated in 6 healthy males. The administration of 5 g magnesium trisilicate with 100 mg nitrofurantoin reduced the rate and extent of nitrofurantoin excretion reflecting decrease in both rate and extent of its absorption [see Drug Interaction (7.1) ]. Propantheline In a crossover study, the in vivo absorption characteristics of nitrofurantoin and propantheline (an anticholinergic agent) combination were evaluated in six subjects. Administration of 30 mg of propantheline 45 min prior to nitrofurantoin 100 mg administration resulted in a statistically significant increase in nitrofurantoin excretion, however, the clinical significance of this effect is unknown. 12.4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Nitrofurantoin is reduced by a wide range of enzymes including bacterial flavoproteins to reactive intermediates which are damaging to macromolecules such as DNA and proteins. Resistance Nitrofurantoin is not active against most strains of Proteus species or Serratia species. It has no activity against Pseudomonas species. Although cross-resistance with other antibacterials may occur, cross resistance with sulfonamides has not been observed. Interaction with Other Antibacterials Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between nitrofurantoin and quinolones. Antibacterial Activity Nitrofurantoin has been shown to be active against most of the following bacteria both in vitro and in clinical infections: Aerobic bacteria Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus Enterococcus species Gram-negative bacteria Escherichia coli Enterobacter species Klebsiella species The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. Nitrofurantoin exhibits in vitro activity against the following bacteria; however, the safety and efficacy of nitrofurantoin in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria have not been established in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials. Aerobic bacteria Gram-positive bacteria Coagulase-negative staphylococci (including Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus saprophyticus ) Streptococcus agalactiae Viridans group streptococci Gram-negative bacteria Citrobacter koseri Citrobacter freundii Klebsiella oxytoca Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria, and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug, please see: http://www.fda.gov/STIC .

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Nitrofurantoin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology (12.4) ].

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE FURADANTIN is indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, Enterococcus species, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella species and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use FURADANTIN is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of FURADANTIN and other antibacterial drugs, FURADANTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. FURADANTIN is a nitrofuran antibacterial indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use FURADANTIN is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of FURADANTIN and other antibacterial drugs FURADANTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS FURADANTIN is contraindicated in: • patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. • patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) due to an increased risk of toxicity resulting from impaired excretion of the drug [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent and in pediatric patients younger than 1 month of age because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 and 8.4 )]. • Known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. ( 4 ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. ( 4 ) • Patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine). ( 4 ) • Pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. ( 4 ) • Pediatric Patients under one month of age. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day - the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. (2.2) Pediatric Patients: 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). (2.3) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Adult Patients The recommended dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg of FURADANTIN four times a day. For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 mg to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate. The benefits of long-term suppressive therapy should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antibacterial resistance [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 , 5.6 )]. Administer FURADANTIN with food to improve drug absorption [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] and, in some patients, tolerance. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patients (1 month of age and older) The recommended dosage of FURADANTIN is 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses in pediatric patients aged 1 month and older. Administer FURADANTIN with food to improve drug absorption [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] and, in some patients, tolerance. Table 1 lists individual dosage volumes for two different strengths of FURADANTIN (25 mg/5 mL and 50 mg/5 mL) based on body weight for pediatric patients. Table 1: FURADANTIN Pediatric Dosing Table for Pediatric Patients 1 month of Age and Older To measure the correct pediatric doses, it is important to administer FURADANTIN with an appropriate size oral dosing syringe with graduations that align with the volume prescribed in Table 1 above. Continue therapy for one week or for at least 3 days after sterility of the urine is obtained. Continued infection indicates the need for reevaluation. For long-term suppressive therapy in pediatric patients, doses as low as 1 mg/kg per 24 hours, given in a single dose or in two divided doses, may be adequate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 , 5.6 )]. furadantin-table1.jpg

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: • Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Pulmonary Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Neuropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Clostridioides difficile -associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Persistence or Reappearance of Bacteriuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of nitrofurantoin formulations, including, FURADANTIN were identified in clinical studies or post-marketing reports. Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Respiratory : chronic, subacute, or acute pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions have occurred. Chronic pulmonary reactions have occurred generally in patients who have received continuous treatment for six months or longer. Malaise, dyspnea on exertion, cough, and altered pulmonary function are common manifestations which can occur insidiously. Radiologic and histologic findings of diffuse interstitial pneumonitis or fibrosis, or both, are also common manifestations of the chronic pulmonary reaction. Fever is prominent. The severity of chronic pulmonary reactions and their degrees of resolution appear to be related to the duration of therapy after the first clinical signs appear. Pulmonary function may be impaired permanently, even after cessation of therapy. The risk is greater when chronic pulmonary reactions are not recognized early. In subacute pulmonary reactions, fever and eosinophilia occur less often than in the acute form. Upon cessation of therapy, recovery may require several months. If the symptoms are not recognized as being drug-related and FURADANTIN therapy is not stopped, the symptoms may become more severe. Acute pulmonary reactions are commonly manifested by fever, chills, cough, chest pain, dyspnea, pulmonary infiltration with consolidation of pleural effusion on x-ray, and eosinophilia. Acute reactions usually occur within the first week of treatment and are reversible with cessation of therapy. Resolution often is dramatic. Changes in EKG (e.g., non-specific ST/T wave changes, bundle branch block) have been reported in association with pulmonary reactions. Cyanosis has been reported. Hepatic : Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, have occurred. Neurologic : Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Fatalities have been reported. Conditions such as renal impairment (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine), anemia, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, vitamin B deficiency, and debilitating diseases may increase the possibility of peripheral neuropathy. Asthenia, vertigo, nystagmus, dizziness, headache, and drowsiness also have been reported with the use of nitrofurantoin. Benign intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri), confusion, depression, optic neuritis, and psychotic reactions have been reported. Bulging fontanels, as a sign of benign intracranial hypertension in infants, have been reported rarely. Dermatologic : Exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been reported. Alopecia also has been reported. Allergic : A lupus-like syndrome associated with pulmonary reactions to nitrofurantoin has been reported. Also, angioedema; maculopapular, erythematous, or eczematous eruptions; pruritus; urticaria; anaphylaxis; arthralgia; myalgia; drug fever; and vasculitis (sometimes associated with pulmonary reactions) have been reported. Hypersensitivity reactions present the most frequent spontaneously-reported adverse reactions in worldwide post marketing experience with nitrofurantoin formulations, including FURADANTIN. Gastrointestinal : Nausea, emesis, and anorexia occur most often. Abdominal pain and diarrhea are less common gastrointestinal reactions. These dose-related reactions can be minimized by reduction of dosage. Sialadenitis and pancreatitis have been reported. There have been sporadic reports of pseudomembranous colitis with the use of nitrofurantoin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment. Hematologic : Cyanosis secondary to methemoglobinemia has been reported. Miscellaneous : As with other antibacterial agents, superinfections caused by resistant organisms, e.g., Pseudomonas species or Candida species, can occur. There are sporadic reports of Clostridioides difficile superinfections, or pseudomembranous colitis, with the use of nitrofurantoin, including FURADANTIN. Laboratory Adverse Reactions The following laboratory adverse reactions have been reported with the use of nitrofurantoin formulations, including FURADANTIN; increased AST (SGOT), increased ALT (SGPT), decreased hemoglobin, increased serum phosphorus, eosinophilia, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastic anemia. In most cases, these hematologic abnormalities resolved following cessation of therapy. Aplastic anemia has been reported. The most common adverse reactions occurring in patients are nausea, vomiting, anorexia, vertigo, nystagmus, dizziness, headache, angioedema, rash, urticaria, pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions, hepatic reactions, peripheral neuropathy, increased aspartate aminotransferase, increased alanine aminotransferase, decreased hemoglobin, increased serum phosphorus, and eosinophilia ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Casper Pharma, LLC. at 1-844–5–CASPER (1-844-522-7737) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch .

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antacids: Decreased absorption of nitrofurantoin. (7.1) Uricosuric drugs: Inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. (7.2) 7.1 Antacids Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. The mechanism for this interaction probably is adsorption of nitrofurantoin onto the surface of magnesium trisilicate. If coadministration of FURADANTIN with antacids containing magnesium trisilicate cannot be avoided, monitor for lack of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Uricosuric Drugs Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. The resulting increase in nitrofurantoin serum levels may increase toxicity, and the decreased urinary levels could lessen its efficacy as a urinary tract antibacterial. Therefore, monitor for nitrofurantoin adverse reactions when co-administering FURADANTIN with uricosuric drugs. 7.3 Drug Interference with Laboratory Tests The presence of nitrofurantoin can cause a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine when using Benedict's or Fehling's copper reduction reaction to determine the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Use glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions to detect glucose in the urine.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Nitrofurantoin is contraindicated in pregnant women at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia in the infant (see Clinical Considerations ). Published epidemiological studies, including cohort studies and case control studies, have reported inconsistent findings related to nitrofurantoin use during the first trimester and risk of major birth defects. These studies cannot definitively establish the presence or absence of risk due to several methodological limitations. The limited number of epidemiological studies available have not identified drug-associated risks of major birth defects, miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no fetotoxicity was observed when nitrofurantoin was administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits, during organogenesis, at up to 6 times the recommended human dose (see Data ). The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Nitrofurantoin is not recommended in pregnant women at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability) [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Data Animal Data Several reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at doses up to six times the human dose and have revealed no harm to the fetus due to nitrofurantoin. In a single published study conducted in mice at 68 times the human dose (based on mg/kg administered to the dam), growth retardation and a low incidence of minor and common malformations were observed. However, at 25 times the human dose, fetal malformations were not observed. Nitrofurantoin has been shown in one published transplacental carcinogenicity study to induce lung papillary adenomas in the F1 generation mice at doses 19 times the human dose on a mg/kg basis. The relationship of this finding to potential human carcinogenesis is presently unknown.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Male Based on findings from a fertility study conducted in 36 healthy male volunteers and an animal fertility study, nitrofurantoin may reversibly decrease spermatogenesis [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1) ]. Nitrofurantoin doses of 10 mg/kg/day or greater in healthy human males may produce a slight to moderate spermatogenic arrest with a decrease in sperm count. The effect on fertility is unknown.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use FURADANTIN is contraindicated in pediatric patients younger than 1 month of age because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability). [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. The safety and effectiveness of FURADANTIN in pediatric patients aged 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections have been established.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Incidents of acute overdosage of FURADANTIN have resulted in symptoms such as vomiting. Induction of emesis is recommended. There is no specific antidote, but a high fluid intake should be maintained to promote urinary excretion of the drug. Nitrofurantoin is dialyzable.

SPL TEXT:
Furadantin Nitrofurantoin NITROFURANTOIN NITROFURANTOIN CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE GLYCERIN MAGNESIUM ALUMINUM SILICATE METHYLPARABEN PROPYLPARABEN WATER SODIUM CITRATE SORBITOL Furadantin Nitrofurantoin NITROFURANTOIN NITROFURANTOIN CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE GLYCERIN MAGNESIUM ALUMINUM SILICATE METHYLPARABEN PROPYLPARABEN WATER SODIUM CITRATE SORBITOL opaque