DRUG NAME: tranexamic acid
GENERIC NAME: TRANEXAMIC ACID
MANUFACTURER: Avenacy, Inc.
ROUTE: INTRAVENOUS

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Tranexamic acid is trans-4-(aminomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, an antifibrinolytic agent. Tranexamic acid, USP is a white crystalline powder. The structural formula is Empirical Formula: C 8 H 15 NO 2 Molecular Weight: 157.2 Each mL of the sterile solution for intravenous injection contains 100 mg tranexamic acid, USP and Water for Injection to 1 mL. The aqueous solution for injection has a pH of 6.5 to 8.0. Structural Formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Tranexamic acid is a synthetic lysine amino acid derivative, which diminishes the dissolution of hemostatic fibrin by plasmin. In the presence of tranexamic acid, the lysine receptor binding sites of plasmin for fibrin are occupied, preventing binding to fibrin monomers, thus preserving and stabilizing fibrin's matrix structure. The antifibrinolytic effects of tranexamic acid are mediated by reversible interactions at multiple binding sites within plasminogen. Native human plasminogen contains 4 to 5 lysine binding sites with low affinity for tranexamic acid (Kd = 750 μmol/L) and 1 with high affinity (Kd = 1.1 μmol/L). The high affinity lysine site of plasminogen is involved in its binding to fibrin. Saturation of the high affinity binding site with tranexamic acid displaces plasminogen from the surface of fibrin. Although plasmin may be formed by conformational changes in plasminogen, binding to and dissolution of the fibrin matrix is inhibited. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Tranexamic acid, in concentrations of 1 mg/mL and 10 mg/mL prolongs the thrombin time. An antifibrinolytic concentration of tranexamic acid remains in different tissues for about 17 hours, and in the serum, up to 7 or 8 hours. Tranexamic acid in concentrations up to 10 mg/mL blood has no influence on the platelet count, the coagulation time or various coagulation factors in whole blood or citrated blood from healthy subjects. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution The initial volume of distribution is about 9 to 12 liters. The plasma protein binding of tranexamic acid is about 3% at therapeutic plasma levels and seems to be fully accounted for by its binding to plasminogen. Tranexamic acid does not bind to serum albumin. Elimination After an intravenous dose of 1 g, the plasma concentration time curve shows a triexponential decay with a half-life of about 2 hours for the terminal elimination phase. Excretion Urinary excretion is the main route of elimination via glomerular filtration. Overall renal clearance is equal to overall plasma clearance (110 to 116 mL/min), and more than 95% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug. Excretion of tranexamic acid is about 90% at 24 hours after intravenous administration of 10 mg/kg body weight. Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment The blood levels of tranexamic acid are increased in patients with renal insufficiency. Urinary excretion following a single intravenous injection of tranexamic acid declines as renal function decreases. Following a single 10 mg/kg intravenous injection of tranexamic acid, the 24-hour urinary fractions of tranexamic acid with serum creatinine concentrations 1.4 to 2.8, 2.8 to 5.7, and greater than 5.7 mg/dL were 51, 39, and 19%, respectively. The 24-hour tranexamic acid plasma concentrations for these patients demonstrated a direct relationship to the degree of renal impairment. Therefore, dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Drug Interaction Studies No studies of interactions between tranexamic acid and other drugs have been conducted.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Tranexamic acid is a synthetic lysine amino acid derivative, which diminishes the dissolution of hemostatic fibrin by plasmin. In the presence of tranexamic acid, the lysine receptor binding sites of plasmin for fibrin are occupied, preventing binding to fibrin monomers, thus preserving and stabilizing fibrin's matrix structure. The antifibrinolytic effects of tranexamic acid are mediated by reversible interactions at multiple binding sites within plasminogen. Native human plasminogen contains 4 to 5 lysine binding sites with low affinity for tranexamic acid (Kd = 750 μmol/L) and 1 with high affinity (Kd = 1.1 μmol/L). The high affinity lysine site of plasminogen is involved in its binding to fibrin. Saturation of the high affinity binding site with tranexamic acid displaces plasminogen from the surface of fibrin. Although plasmin may be formed by conformational changes in plasminogen, binding to and dissolution of the fibrin matrix is inhibited.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid injection, USP is indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. Tranexamic acid injection is an antifibrinolytic indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid injection, USP is contraindicated: In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Anecdotal experience indicates that cerebral edema and cerebral infarction may be caused by tranexamic acid injection in such patients. In patients with active intravascular clotting [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, due to risk of cerebral edema and cerebral infarction. ( 4 ) In patients with active intravascular clotting. ( 4 ) In patients with severe hypersensitivity reactions to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of tranexamic acid injection intravenously with replacement therapy. ( 2.1 ) After Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. Infuse no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension. ( 2.1 ) Reduce the dosage for patients with renal impairment. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of tranexamic acid injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight intravenously administered as a single-dose, immediately before tooth extractions. Infuse no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Following tooth extraction, tranexamic acid injection may be administered for 2 to 8 days at a dose of 10 mg/kg actual body weight 3 to 4 times daily, intravenously. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. For intravenous infusion, tranexamic acid injection may be mixed with most solutions for infusion such as electrolyte solutions, carbohydrate solutions, amino acid solutions, and Dextran solutions. Heparin may be added to tranexamic acid injection. Tranexamic acid injection should NOT be mixed with blood. The drug is a synthetic amino acid and should NOT be mixed with solutions containing penicillin. Discard any unused portion. The diluted mixture may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature prior to patient administration. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment * For patients with moderate to severe impaired renal function, the following dosages are recommended: Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment * Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Intravenous Dosage 1.36 to 2.83 (120 to 250 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg twice daily 2.83 to 5.66 (250 to 500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg daily >5.66 (>500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg every 24 hours

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Thromboembolic Risk [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Visual Disturbances [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Dizziness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, allergic dermatitis, giddiness, hypotension, and thromboembolic events. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Avenacy Inc. at 1-855-283-6229 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of tranexamic acid. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disturbances (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) may occur and may resolve with dose-reduction. Allergic dermatitis and giddiness have been reported. Hypotension has been reported when intravenous injection is too rapid. Thromboembolic events (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, cerebral thrombosis, acute renal cortical necrosis, and central retinal artery, vein obstruction and cases associated with concomitant use of combination hormonal contraceptives) have been rarely reported in patients receiving tranexamic acid for indications other than hemorrhage prevention in patients with hemophilia. Convulsion, cromatopsia, and visual impairment have also been reported. Anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions have been reported that are suggestive of a causal relationship.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Prothrombotic Medical Products: Avoid concomitant use, can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid. ( 5.1 , 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] .

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies, case series and case reports with tranexamic acid use in pregnant women in the second and third trimester and at the time of delivery have not clarified whether there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are 2 (0.02%) infant cases with structural abnormalities that resulted in death when tranexamic acid was used during conception or the first trimester of pregnancy; however, due to other confounding factors the risk of major birth defects with use of tranexamic acid during pregnancy is not clear. Tranexamic acid is known to pass the placenta and appears in cord blood at concentrations approximately equal to maternal concentration (see Data ) . Reproduction studies performed in mice, rats, and rabbits have not revealed any adverse effects on the fetus due to tranexamic acid administered during organogenesis. Doses examined were multiples of up to 3 times (mouse), 6 times (rat), and 3 times (rabbit) the maximum human dose based on body surface area in the mouse, rat, and rabbit, respectively (see Data ) . The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. It is not known whether tranexamic acid use in pregnant women may cause a drug-associated risk of miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. For decisions regarding the use of tranexamic acid injection during pregnancy, the potential risk of tranexamic acid injection administration on the fetus should always be considered along with the mother's clinical need for tranexamic acid injection; an accurate risk-benefit evaluation should drive the treating physician's decision. Data Human Data Tranexamic acid passes through the placenta. The concentration in cord blood after an intravenous injection of 10 mg/kg to pregnant women is about 30 mg/L, as high as in the maternal blood. There were 13 clinical studies that described fetal and/or neonatal functional issues such as low Apgar score, neonatal sepsis, cephalohematoma and 9 clinical studies that discussed alterations to growth including low birth weight and preterm birth at 22 to 36 weeks of gestation in fetuses and infants exposed to tranexamic acid in-utero. Animal Data In embryo-fetal development studies, tranexamic acid was administered to pregnant mice from Gestation day (GD) 6 through GD 12 and rats from GD 9 through GD 14 at daily doses of 0.3 or 1.5 g/kg. There was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes in mice and rats at multiple of 3 and 6 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area in the mouse and rat, respectively. In rabbits, tranexamic acid was administered intravenously at doses of 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg/day or orally at doses of 100, 200, or 400 mg/kg/day from GD 6 through GD 18. There was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes at dose multiples of 2 or 3 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area. Intravenous doses of 200 mg/kg/day showed slightly retarded weight gain in pregnant rabbits.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use There are limited data concerning the use of tranexamic acid injection in pediatric patients with hemophilia who are undergoing tooth extraction. The limited data suggest that there are no significant pharmacokinetic differences between adults and pediatric patients.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of tranexamic acid injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Cases of overdosage of tranexamic acid injection have been reported. Based on these reports, symptoms of overdosage may be gastrointestinal, e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea; hypotensive, e.g., orthostatic symptoms; thromboembolic, e.g., arterial, venous, embolic; neurologic, e.g., visual impairment, convulsions, headache, mental status changes; myoclonus; and rash.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage Conditions Store at 20º to 25°C (68º to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Discard unused portion. Sterile, Nonpyrogenic, Preservative-free. The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex.

SPL TEXT:
tranexamic acid tranexamic acid tranexamic acid tranexamic acid water