DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Cephalexin, USP is a semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic intended for oral administration. It is 7-(D-α-amino-α-phenylacetamido)-3-methyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylic acid, monohydrate. Cephalexin, USP has the following structural formula: C 16 H 17 N 3 O 4 S•H 2 O M.W. 365.41 The nucleus of cephalexin, USP is related to that of other cephalosporin antibiotics. The compound is a zwitterion; i.e., the molecule contains both a basic and an acidic group. The isoelectric point of cephalexin, USP in water is approximately 4.5 to 5. The crystalline form of cephalexin, USP which is available is a monohydrate. It is a white crystalline solid having a bitter taste. Solubility in water is low at room temperature; 1 or 2 mg/mL may be dissolved readily, but higher concentrations are obtained with increasing difficulty. The cephalosporins differ from penicillins in the structure of the bicyclic ring system. Cephalexin, USP has a D -phenylglycyl group as substituent at the 7-amino position and an unsubstituted methyl group at the 3-position. After mixing, each 5 mL of cephalexin for oral suspension USP will contain cephalexin monohydrate, USP equivalent to 125 mg (360 μmol) or 250 mg (720 μmol) of cephalexin. Inactive Ingredients: strawberry powder, methylcellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate, sucrose and FD&C Red No. 40. image description

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption: Cephalexin is acid stable and may be given without regard to meals. Following doses of 250 mg, 500 mg, and 1 g, average peak serum levels of approximately 9, 18, and 32 mcg/mL, respectively, were obtained at 1 hour. Serum levels were detectable 6 hours after administration (at a level of detection of 0.2 mcg/mL). Distribution: Cephalexin is approximately 10% to 15% bound to plasma proteins. Excretion: Cephalexin is excreted in the urine by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion. Studies showed that over 90% of the drug was excreted unchanged in the urine within 8 hours. During this period, peak urine concentrations following the 250 mg, 500 mg, and 1 g doses were approximately 1000, 2200, and 5000 mcg/mL respectively. Drug Interactions In healthy subjects given single 500 mg doses of cephalexin and metformin, plasma metformin mean Cmax and AUC increased by an average of 34% and 24%, respectively, and metformin mean renal clearance decreased by 14%. No information is available about the interaction of cephalexin and metformin following multiple doses of either drug. 12.4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cephalexin is a bactericidal agent that acts by the inhibition of bacterial cell-wall synthesis. Resistance Methicillin-resistant staphylococci and most isolates of enterococci are resistant to cephalexin. Cephalexin is not active against most isolates of Enterobacter spp., Morganella morganii , and Proteus vulgaris . Cephalexin has no activity against Pseudomonas spp., or Acinetobacter calcoaceticus . Penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae is usually cross-resistant to beta-lactam antibacterial drugs. Antimicrobial Activity Cephalexin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ]. Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible isolates) Streptococcus pyogenes Gram-negative bacteria Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella pneumoniae Moraxella catarrhalis Proteus mirabilis Susceptibility Tests Methods When available, the clinical microbiology laboratory should provide the results of in vitro susceptibility test results for antimicrobial drug products used in resident hospitals to the physician as periodic reports that describe the susceptibility profile of nosocomial and community-acquired pathogens. These reports should aid the physician in selecting an antibacterial drug product for treatment. In cases of uncomplicated urinary tract infection only, susceptibility of E. coli , K. pneumoniae , and P. mirabilis to cephalexin may be inferred by testing cefazolin 2 . Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs). These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds. The MICs should be determined using a standardized test methods (broth or agar) 1,2 . Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds. The zone size provides an estimate of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds. The zone size should be determined using a standardized test method 2,3 . A report of Susceptible (S) indicates that the antimicrobial drug is likely to inhibit growth of the pathogen if the antimicrobial drug reaches the concentration usually achievable at the site of infection. A report of Intermediate (I) indicates that the result should be considered equivocal, and if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative clinically feasible drugs, the test should be repeated. This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where a high dosage of the drug can be used. This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation. A report of Resistant (R) indicates that the antimicrobial drug is not likely to inhibit growth of the pathogen if the antimicrobial drug reaches the concentrations usually achievable at the infection site; other therapy should be selected. Quality Control Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory controls to monitor and ensure the accuracy and precision of supplies and reagents used in the assay, and the techniques of the individual performing the test 1,2,3 .

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )] .

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin for oral suspension, USP is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: •Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) •Otitis media ( 1.2 ) •Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) •Bone infections ( 1.4 ) •Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cephalexin for oral suspension, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Cephalexin for oral suspension, USP should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Otitis Media Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of otitis media caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.4 Bone Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of bone infections caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Proteus mirabilis. 1.5 Genitourinary Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of genitourinary tract infections, including acute prostatitis, caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , and Klebsiella pneumoniae . 1.6 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cephalexin for oral suspension, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Cephalexin for oral suspension, USP should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information is available, this information should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cephalexin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to cephalexin or other members of the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. Patients with known hypersensitivity to cephalexin or other members of the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. ( 4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and patients at least 15 years of age The usual dose is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients (over 1 year of age) • Otitis media: 75 to 100 mg/kg in equally divided doses every 6 hours ( 2.2 ) • All other indications: 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) • In severe infections: 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) • Duration of therapy ranges from 7 to 14 days depending on the infection type and severity. ( 2 ) • Dosage adjustment is required in patients with severe and end stage renal disease (ESRD) defined as creatinine clearance below 30 mL/min. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adults and Pediatric Patients At Least 15 Years of Age The usual dose of oral cephalexin is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered. Treatment is administered for 7 to 14 days. For more severe infections larger doses of oral cephalexin may be needed, up to 4 grams daily in two to four equally divided doses. 2.2 Pediatric Patients (Over 1 Year of Age) The recommended total daily dose of oral cephalexin for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses for 7 to 14 days. In the treatment of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, duration of at least 10 days is recommended. In severe infections, a total daily dose of 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses. For the treatment of otitis media, the recommended daily dose is 75 to 100 mg/kg given in equally divided doses. Cephalexin Suspension Weight 125 mg/5 mL 250 mg/5 mL 10 kg (22 lb) 1/2 to 1 tsp q.i.d. 1/4 to 1/2 tsp q.i.d. 20 kg (44 lb) 1 to 2 tsp q.i.d. 1/2 to 1 tsp q.i.d. 40 kg (88 lb) 2 to 4 tsp q.i.d. 1 to 2 tsp q.i.d. or Weight 125 mg/5 mL 250 mg/5 mL 10 kg (22 lb) 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. 1/2 to 1 tsp b.i.d 20 kg (44 lb) 2 to 4 tsp b.i.d. 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. 40 kg (88 lb) 4 to 8 tsp b.i.d. 2 to 4 tsp b.i.d. Directions for Mixing 125 mg per 5 mL (100 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension at time of dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 71 mL of water. For ease in preparation, tap bottle to loosen powder, add the water in 2 portions, shaking well after each addition. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 125 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 125 mg per 5 mL (200 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension at time of dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 140 mL of water. For ease in preparation, tap bottle to loosen powder, add the water in 2 portions, shaking well after each addition. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 125 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 250 mg per 5 mL (100 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension at time of dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 71 mL of water. For ease in preparation, tap bottle to loosen powder, add the water in 2 portions, shaking well after each addition. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 250 mg per 5 mL (200 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension at time of dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 140 mL of water. For ease in preparation, tap bottle to loosen powder, add the water in 2 portions, shaking well after each addition. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). * After mixing, store in refrigerator. May be kept for 14 days without significant loss of potency. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients At Least 15 Years of Age With Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for cephalexin to patients with impaired renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. Table 1. Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL/min No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1 g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis. 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious events are described in greater detail in the Warning and Precautions section: • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] • Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] • Direct Coombs’ Test Seroconversion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] • Seizure Potential [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] • Effect on Prothrombin Activity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] • Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] The most common adverse reactions associated with cephalexin include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia and abdominal pain. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TWi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-844-518-2989 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials, the most frequent adverse reaction was diarrhea. Nausea and vomiting, dyspepsia, gastritis, and abdominal pain have also occurred. As with penicillins and other cephalosporins, transient hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice have been reported. Other reactions have included hypersensitivity reactions, genital and anal pruritus, genital candidiasis, vaginitis and vaginal discharge, dizziness, fatigue, headache, agitation, confusion, hallucinations, arthralgia, arthritis, and joint disorder. Reversible interstitial nephritis has been reported. Eosinophilia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, and slight elevations in aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) have been reported. In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cephalexin, the following adverse reactions and other altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibacterial drugs: Other Adverse Reactions : Fever, colitis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, renal dysfunction, and toxic nephropathy. Altered Laboratory Tests: Prolonged prothrombin time, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated bilirubin, elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), pancytopenia, leukopenia, and agranulocytosis.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Metformin: increased metformin concentrations. Monitor for hypoglycemia. ( 7.1 ) • Probenecid - The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. Coadministration of probenecid with cephalexin is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) • Administration of cephalexin may result in a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Metformin Administration of cephalexin with metformin results in increased plasma metformin concentrations and decreased renal clearance of metformin. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Probenecid The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. Coadministration of probenecid with cephalexin is not recommended. 7.3 Interaction With Laboratory or Diagnostic Testing A false-positive reaction may occur when testing for the presence of glucose in the urine using Benedict’s solution or Fehling’s solution.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Reproduction studies have been performed on mice and rats using oral doses of cephalexin monohydrate 0.6 and 1.5 times the maximum daily human dose (66 mg/kg/day) based upon body surface area basis, and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of cephalexin in pediatric patients was established in clinical trials for the dosages described in the dosage and administration section [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) ] .

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Of the 701 subjects in 3 published clinical studies of cephalexin, 433 (62%) were 65 and over. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. This drug is substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of oral overdose may include nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, diarrhea, and hematuria. In the event of an overdose, institute general supportive measures. Forced diuresis, peritoneal dialysis, hemodialysis, or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of cephalexin.

SPL TEXT:
Cephalexin Cephalexin CEPHALEXIN CEPHALEXIN ANHYDROUS FD&C RED NO. 40 SUCROSE STRAWBERRY METHYLCELLULOSE (25 CPS) SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE Cephalexin Cephalexin CEPHALEXIN CEPHALEXIN ANHYDROUS FD&C RED NO. 40 SUCROSE STRAWBERRY METHYLCELLULOSE (25 CPS) SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE