DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION REMERON and REMERONSolTab contain mirtazapine. Mirtazapine has a tetracyclic chemical structure and belongs to the piperazino-azepine group of compounds. It is designated 1,2,3,4,10,14b-hexahydro-2-methylpyrazino [2,1-a] pyrido [2,3-c][2] benzazepine and has the empirical formula of C 17 H 19 N 3 . Its molecular weight is 265.35. The structural formula is the following and it is the racemic mixture: Mirtazapine is a white to creamy white crystalline powder which is practically insoluble in water. REMERON is available for oral administration as scored film-coated tablets containing 15 or 30 mg of mirtazapine Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide anhydrous, corn starch, ferric oxide (yellow), hydroxypropyl cellulose, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, lactose monohydrate, polyethylene glycol 8000, and titanium dioxide. The 30 mg tablets also contain ferric oxide (red). REMERONSolTab is available for oral administration as an orally disintegrating tablet containing 15, 30, or 45 mg of mirtazapine. REMERONSolTab also contains the following inactive ingredients: aspartame, citric acid anhydrous fine granular, crospovidone, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, mannitol, granular mannitol 2080, microcrystalline cellulose, natural and artificial orange flavor, polymethacrylate (Eudragit E100), povidone, sodium bicarbonate, and sugar spheres (composed of starch and sucrose). Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mirtazapine for the treatment of major depressive disorder, is unclear. However, its efficacy could be mediated through its activity as an antagonist at central presynaptic α 2 -adrenergic inhibitory autoreceptors and heteroreceptors and enhancing central noradrenergic and serotonergic activity. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics In preclinical studies, mirtazapine acts as an antagonist at α 2 -adrenergic inhibitory autoreceptors and heteroreceptors and as an antagonist at serotonin 5-HT 2 and 5-HT 3 receptors. Mirtazapine has no significant affinity for the 5-HT 1A and 5-HT 1B receptors. Mirtazapine also acts as an antagonist of histamine (H 1 ) receptors, peripheral α 1 -adrenergic receptors, and muscarinic receptors. Actions at these receptors may explain some of the other clinical effects of mirtazapine (e.g., its prominent somnolent effects and orthostatic hypotension may be explained by its inhibition of histamine (H 1 ) receptors and peripheral α 1 -adrenergic receptors, respectively). Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of REMERON (mirtazapine) on QTc interval was assessed in healthy subjects. At a dose of 75 mg (1.67 times the maximum recommended dosage), REMERON does not prolong the QTc interval to a clinically meaningful extent. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma levels of mirtazapine are linearly related to dose over a dose range of 15 to 80 mg (1.78 times the maximum recommended dose). Steady state plasma levels of mirtazapine are attained within 5 days, with about 50% accumulation (accumulation ratio=1.5). The (–) enantiomer has an elimination half-life that is approximately twice as long as the (+) enantiomer and therefore achieves plasma levels that are about 3 times as high as that of the (+) enantiomer. Absorption Mirtazapine has an absolute bioavailability of about 50% following oral administration. Peak plasma concentrations of mirtazapine are reached within about 2 hours post dose. Food Effect The presence of food in the stomach has a minimal effect on both the rate and extent of absorption. Distribution Mirtazapine is approximately 85% bound to plasma proteins over a concentration range of 0.01 to 10 mcg/mL. Elimination Mirtazapine has a half-life of about 20 to 40 hours following oral administration of REMERON or REMERONSolTab. Metabolism Mirtazapine is extensively metabolized after oral administration. Major pathways of bio-transformation are demethylation and hydroxylation followed by glucuronide conjugation. In vitro data from human liver microsomes indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 are involved in the formation of the 8-hydroxy metabolite of mirtazapine, whereas CYP3A is considered to be responsible for the formation of the N-desmethyl and N-oxide metabolite. Several unconjugated metabolites possess pharmacological activity but are present in the plasma at very low levels. Excretion Mirtazapine and its metabolites are eliminated predominantly (75%) via urine with 15% in feces. Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Following oral administration of REMERON Tablets 20 mg/day for 7 days to subjects of varying ages (range 25 to 74 years old), oral clearance of mirtazapine was reduced in the elderly compared to the younger subjects. The clearance in elderly males was 40% lower compared to younger males, while the clearance was 10% lower in elderly females compared to younger females [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Male and Female Patients The mean elimination half-life of mirtazapine after oral administration ranges from approximately 20 to 40 hours across age and gender subgroups, with females of all ages exhibiting significantly longer elimination half-lives than males (mean half-life of 37 hours for females vs. 26 hours for males). Race There have been no clinical studies to evaluate the effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of REMERON. Patients with Renal Impairment When compared to subjects with normal renal function, total body clearance of mirtazapine was reduced approximately 30% in renal impaired patients with GFR=11–39 mL/min/1.73 m 2 and approximately 50% in renal impaired patients with GFR=<10 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Patients with Hepatic Impairment Following a single 15-mg oral dose of REMERON, the oral clearance of mirtazapine in patients with hepatic impairment was decreased by approximately 30%, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 , 5.14) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Drug Interactions Studies Warfarin Mirtazapine (30 mg daily) at steady state caused a statistically significant increase (0.2) in the International Normalized Ratio (INR) in subjects treated with warfarin [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. QTc-Prolonging Drugs The risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., Torsades de Pointes) may be increased with concomitant use of medicines which prolong the QTc interval (e.g., some antipsychotics and antibiotics) and in mirtazapine overdose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) , Drug Interactions (7) , and Overdosage (10) ]. Phenytoin In healthy male subjects (n=18), phenytoin (200 mg daily, at steady state) increased mirtazapine (30 mg daily, at steady state) clearance about 2-fold, resulting in a decrease in average plasma mirtazapine concentrations of 45% [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Mirtazapine did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin. Carbamazepine In healthy male subjects (n=24), carbamazepine (400 mg twice a day, at steady state) increased mirtazapine (15 mg twice a day, at steady state) clearance about 2-fold, resulting in a decrease in average plasma mirtazapine concentrations of 60% [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Cimetidine In healthy male subjects (n=12), when cimetidine, a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, given at 800 mg b.i.d. at steady state was coadministered with mirtazapine (30 mg daily) at steady state, the Area Under the Curve (AUC) of mirtazapine increased more than 50% [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Mirtazapine did not cause relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of cimetidine. Ketoconazole In healthy male Caucasian subjects (n=24), coadministration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole (200 mg b.i.d. for 6.5 days) increased the peak plasma levels and the AUC of a single 30 mg dose of mirtazapine by approximately 40% and 50%, respectively [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Amitriptyline In healthy, CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer patients (n=32), amitriptyline (75 mg daily), at steady state, did not cause relevant changes to the pharmacokinetics of steady state mirtazapine (30 mg daily); mirtazapine also did not cause relevant changes to the pharmacokinetics of amitriptyline. Paroxetine In healthy CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer subjects (n=24), mirtazapine (30 mg/day), at steady state, did not cause relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of steady state paroxetine (40 mg/day), a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Lithium No relevant clinical effects or significant changes in pharmacokinetics have been observed in healthy male subjects on concurrent treatment with lithium 600 mg/day for 10 days at steady state and a single 30 mg dose of mirtazapine. The effects of higher doses of lithium on the pharmacokinetics of mirtazapine are unknown. Risperidone Mirtazapine (30 mg daily) at steady state did not influence the pharmacokinetics of risperidone (up to 3 mg twice a day) in subjects (n=6) in need of treatment with an antipsychotic and antidepressant drug. Alcohol Concomitant administration of alcohol (equivalent to 60 g) had a minimal effect on plasma levels of mirtazapine (15 mg) in 6 healthy male subjects. However, the impairment of cognitive and motor skills produced by REMERON were shown to be additive with those produced by alcohol. Diazepam Concomitant administration of diazepam (15 mg) had a minimal effect on plasma levels of mirtazapine (15 mg) in 12 healthy subjects. However, the impairment of motor skills produced by REMERON has been shown to be additive with those caused by diazepam.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mirtazapine for the treatment of major depressive disorder, is unclear. However, its efficacy could be mediated through its activity as an antagonist at central presynaptic α 2 -adrenergic inhibitory autoreceptors and heteroreceptors and enhancing central noradrenergic and serotonergic activity.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REMERON/REMERONSolTab are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . REMERON/REMERONSolTab is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. ( 1 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS REMERON/REMERONSolTab is contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . With a known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or to any of the excipients in REMERON/REMERONSolTab . Severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bullous dermatitis, erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported following the use of REMERON/REMERONSolTab [see Adverse Reactions 6.2 ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs. ( 2.4 , 4 , 7 ) Known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or any of the excipients in REMERON/REMERONSolTab. ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric and young adult patients in short-term studies. Closely monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for clinical worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . REMERON/REMERONSolTab is not approved for use in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. WARNING: SUICIDAL THOUGHTS AND BEHAVIORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in pediatric and young adult patients taking antidepressants. Closely monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. REMERON/REMERONSolTab is not approved for use in pediatric patients. ( 5.1 , 8.4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 15-mg once daily; may increase up to maximum recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Administer orally once daily, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. ( 2.1 ) Administer REMERONSolTab immediately after removal from blister pack. ( 2.2 ) Reduce dose gradually when discontinuing REMERON/REMERONSolTab. ( 2.6 , 5.13 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose of REMERON/REMERONSolTab is 15 mg once daily, administered orally, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. If patients do not have an adequate response to the initial 15 mg dose, increase the dose up to a maximum of 45 mg per day. Dose changes should not be made in intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks to allow sufficient time for evaluation of response to a given dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.2 Administration of REMERONSolTab The tablet should remain in the blister pack until the patient is ready to take it. The patient or caregiver should use dry hands to open the blister. As soon as the blister is opened, the tablet should be removed and placed on the patient's tongue. Use REMERONSolTab immediately after removal from its blister; once removed, it cannot be stored. The whole tablet should be placed on the tongue and allowed to disintegrate without chewing or crushing. Do not attempt to split the tablet. The tablet will disintegrate in saliva so that it can be swallowed. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting REMERON/REMERONSolTab Prior to initiating treatment with REMERON/REMERONSolTab or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2.4 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of REMERON/REMERONSolTab. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping REMERON/REMERONSolTab before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP3A Inducers An increase in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inducer (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin) use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors A decrease in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin). Conversely, an increase in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Cimetidine A decrease in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed with concomitant use of cimetidine. Conversely, an increase in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of REMERON/REMERONSolTab Treatment Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of REMERON/REMERONSolTab [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Gradually reduce the dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab rather than stopping abruptly whenever possible.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the prescribing information: Hypersensitivity [see Contraindications (4) ] Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Serotonin Syndrome [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] Angle-Closure Glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] QT Prolongation and Torsades de Pointes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Increased Appetite and Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Activation of Mania or Hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Elevated Cholesterol and Triglycerides [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Transaminase Elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Discontinuation Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] Most common adverse reactions (≥5% or greater and twice placebo) were somnolence, increased appetite, weight gain, and dizziness. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below are from clinical trials in which REMERON/REMERONSolTab was administered to 2796 patients in phase 2 and 3 clinical studies. The trials consisted of double-blind controlled and open-label studies, inpatient and outpatient studies, fixed dose, and titration studies. Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment Approximately 16% of the 453 patients who received REMERON in U.S. 6-week placebo-controlled clinical trials discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction, compared to 7% of the 361 placebo-treated patients in those studies. The most common reactions leading to discontinuation (≥1% and at a rate at least twice that of placebo) are included in Table 2. Table 2: Adverse Reactions (≥1% and at least twice placebo) Leading to Discontinuation of REMERON in 6-Week Clinical Trials in Patients with MDD REMERON (n=453) Placebo (n=361) Somnolence 10.4% 2.2% Nausea 1.5% 0% Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions (≥5% and twice placebo) associated with the use of REMERON are listed in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions (≥5% and twice placebo) in 6-Week U.S. Clinical Trials of REMERON in Patients with MDD REMERON (n=453) Placebo (n=361) Somnolence 54% 18% Increased Appetite 17% 2% Weight Gain 12% 2% Dizziness 7% 3% Table 4 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in ≥1% of REMERON-treated patients, and were more frequent than the placebo-treated patients, who participated in 6-week, U.S. placebo-controlled trials in which patients were dosed in a range of 5 to 60 mg/day. This table shows the percentage of patients in each group who had at least 1 episode of an adverse reaction at some time during their treatment. Table 4: Adverse Reactions (≥1% and greater than placebo) in 6-Week U.S. Clinical Studies of Remeron in Patients with MDD REMERON (n=453) Placebo (n=361) Body as a Whole Asthenia 8% 5% Flu Syndrome 5% 3% Back Pain 2% 1% Digestive System Dry Mouth 25% 15% Increased Appetite 17% 2% Constipation 13% 7% Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Weight Gain 12% 2% Peripheral Edema 2% 1% Edema 1% 0% Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 2% 1% Nervous System Somnolence 54% 18% Dizziness 7% 3% Abnormal Dreams 4% 1% Thinking Abnormal 3% 1% Tremor 2% 1% Confusion 2% 0% Respiratory System Dyspnea 1% 0% Urogenital System Urinary Frequency 2% 1% ECG Changes The electrocardiograms for 338 patients who received REMERON and 261 patients who received placebo in 6-week, placebo-controlled trials were analyzed. REMERON was associated with a mean increase in heart rate of 3.4 bpm, compared to 0.8 bpm for placebo. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of REMERON The following list does not include reactions: 1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, 2) for which a drug cause was remote, 3) which were so general or excessively specific so as to be uninformative, 4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or 5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Adverse reactions are categorized by body system according to the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients; rare adverse reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Body as a Whole: frequent: malaise, abdominal pain, abdominal syndrome acute; infrequent : chills, fever, face edema, ulcer, photosensitivity reaction, neck rigidity, neck pain, abdomen enlarged; rare : cellulitis, chest pain substernal. Cardiovascular System : frequent : hypertension, vasodilatation; infrequent : angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, bradycardia, ventricular extrasystoles, syncope, migraine, hypotension; rare : atrial arrhythmia, bigeminy, vascular headache, pulmonary embolus, cerebral ischemia, cardiomegaly, phlebitis, left heart failure. Digestive System : frequent : vomiting, anorexia; infrequent : eructation, glossitis, cholecystitis, nausea and vomiting, gum hemorrhage, stomatitis, colitis, liver function tests abnormal; rare : tongue discoloration, ulcerative stomatitis, salivary gland enlargement, increased salivation, intestinal obstruction, pancreatitis, aphthous stomatitis, cirrhosis of liver, gastritis, gastroenteritis, oral moniliasis, tongue edema. Endocrine System: rare : goiter, hypothyroidism. Hemic and Lymphatic System : rare : lymphadenopathy, leukopenia, petechia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, lymphocytosis, pancytopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : frequent : thirst; infrequent : dehydration, weight loss; rare : gout, SGOT increased, healing abnormal, acid phosphatase increased, SGPT increased, diabetes mellitus, hyponatremia. Musculoskeletal System : frequent : myasthenia, arthralgia; infrequent : arthritis, tenosynovitis; rare : pathologic fracture, osteoporosis fracture, bone pain, myositis, tendon rupture, arthrosis, bursitis. Nervous System : frequent : hypesthesia, apathy, depression, hypokinesia, vertigo, twitching, agitation, anxiety, amnesia, hyperkinesia, paresthesia; infrequent : ataxia, delirium, delusions, depersonalization, dyskinesia, extrapyramidal syndrome, libido increased, coordination abnormal, dysarthria, hallucinations, manic reaction, neurosis, dystonia, hostility, reflexes increased, emotional lability, euphoria, paranoid reaction; rare : aphasia, nystagmus, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), stupor, dementia, diplopia, drug dependence, paralysis, grand mal convulsion, hypotonia, myoclonus, psychotic depression, withdrawal syndrome, serotonin syndrome. Respiratory System : frequent : cough increased, sinusitis; infrequent : epistaxis, bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia; rare : asphyxia, laryngitis, pneumothorax, hiccup. Skin and Appendages : frequent : pruritus, rash; infrequent : acne, exfoliative dermatitis, dry skin, herpes simplex, alopecia; rare : urticaria, herpes zoster, skin hypertrophy, seborrhea, skin ulcer. Special Senses : infrequent : eye pain, abnormality of accommodation, conjunctivitis, deafness, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation disorder, angle-closure glaucoma, hyperacusis, ear pain; rare : blepharitis, partial transitory deafness, otitis media, taste loss, parosmia. Urogenital System : frequent : urinary tract infection; infrequent : kidney calculus, cystitis, dysuria, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, vaginitis, hematuria, breast pain, amenorrhea, dysmenorrhea, leukorrhea, impotence; rare : polyuria, urethritis, metrorrhagia, menorrhagia, abnormal ejaculation, breast engorgement, breast enlargement, urinary urgency. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of REMERON. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac disorders : ventricular arrhythmia (Torsades de Pointes) Endocrine disorders: hyperprolactinemia (and related symptoms, e.g., galactorrhea and gynecomastia) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: increased creatine kinase blood levels and rhabdomyolysis Psychiatric disorders: somnambulism (ambulation and other complex behaviors out of bed) Reproductive system and breast disorders: priapism Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bullous dermatitis, erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically important drug interactions with REMERON/REMERONSolTab [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with REMERON/REMERONSolTab Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs, including REMERON/REMERONSolTab, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention REMERON/REMERONSolTab is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with REMERON/REMERONSolTab increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of REMERON/REMERONSolTab and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, amphetamines, St. John's Wort, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with REMERON/REMERONSolTab decreases the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Increase the dose of REMERON/REMERONSolTab if needed with concomitant CYP3A inducer use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with REMERON/REMERONSolTab may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Decrease the dose of REMERON/REMERONSolTab if needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples itraconazole, ritonavir, nefazodone Cimetidine Clinical Impact The concomitant use of cimetidine, a CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A inhibitor, with REMERON/REMERONSolTab may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Decrease the dose of REMERON/REMERONSolTab if needed with concomitant cimetidine use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of REMERON/REMERONSolTab may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Benzodiazepines and Alcohol Clinical Impact The concomitant use of benzodiazepines or alcohol with REMERON/REMERONSolTab increases the impairment of cognitive and motor skills produced by REMERON/REMERONSolTab alone. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of benzodiazepines and alcohol with REMERON/REMERONSolTab [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] ] . Examples diazepam, alprazolam, alcohol Drugs that Prolong QTc Interval Clinical Impact The concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval with REMERON/REMERONSolTab, increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., Torsades de Pointes). Intervention Use caution when using REMERON/REMERONSolTab concomitantly with drugs that prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Warfarin Clinical Impact The concomitant use of warfarin with REMERON/REMERONSolTab may result in an increase in INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Monitor INR during concomitant use of warfarin with REMERON/REMERONSolTab. Strong CYP3A inducers: Dosage increase may be needed for REMERON/REMERONSolTab with concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Strong CYP3A inhibitors : Dosage decrease may be needed when REMERON/REMERONSolTab is coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Cimetidine: Dosage decrease may be needed when REMERON/REMERONSolTab is coadministered with cimetidine. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Warfarin : Monitor INR during concomitant use. ( 7 )

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-6185 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/. Risk Summary Prolonged experience with mirtazapine in pregnant women, based on published observational studies and postmarketing reports, has not reliably identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are risks associated with untreated depression in pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations ). In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of mirtazapine to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis revealed no evidence of teratogenic effects up to 20 and 17 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 45 mg, respectively, based on mg/m 2 body surface area. However, in rats, there was an increase in postimplantation loss at 20 times the MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area. Oral administration of mirtazapine to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation resulted in an increase in pup deaths and a decrease in pup birth weights at doses 20 times the MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area (see Data ). The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk Women who discontinue antidepressants during pregnancy are more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continue antidepressants. This finding is from a prospective, longitudinal study that followed 201 pregnant women with a history of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at the beginning of pregnancy. Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum. Data Animal Data Mirtazapine was administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of 2.5, 15, and 100 mg/kg/day and 2.5, 10, and 40 mg/kg/day, respectively, which are up to 20 and 17 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 45 mg based on mg/m 2 body surface area, respectively. No evidence of teratogenic effects was observed. However, in rats, there was an increase in postimplantation loss in dams treated with mirtazapine at 100 mg/kg/day which is 20 times the MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area. Oral administration of mirtazapine at doses of 2.5, 15, and 100 mg/kg/day to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation resulted in an increase in pup deaths during the first 3 days of lactation and a decrease in pup birth weights at 20 times the MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area. The cause of these deaths is not known. The no effect dose level is 3 times the MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of REMERON/REMERONSolTab have not been established in pediatric patients with MDD. Two placebo-controlled trials in 258 pediatric patients with MDD have been conducted with REMERON, and the data were insufficient to establish the safety and effectiveness of REMERON/REMERONSolTab in pediatric patients with MDD. Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric patients [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In an 8-week-long clinical trial in pediatric patients receiving doses between 15 to 45 mg per day, 49% of REMERON-treated patients had a weight gain of at least 7%, compared to 5.7% of placebo-treated patients. The mean increase in weight was 4 kg (2 kg SD) for REMERON-treated patients versus 1 kg (2 kg SD) for placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] .

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Approximately 190 patients ≥65 years of age participated in clinical studies with REMERON. REMERON/REMERONSolTab is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney (75%), and the risk of decreased clearance of this drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function. Pharmacokinetic studies revealed a decreased clearance of mirtazapine in the elderly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Sedating drugs, including REMERON/REMERONSolTab, may cause confusion and over-sedation in the elderly. Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia. Caution is indicated when administering REMERON/REMERONSolTab to elderly patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , (5.14) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be conservative, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Human Experience In premarketing clinical studies, there were reports of REMERON overdose alone or in combination with other pharmacological agents. Signs and symptoms reported in association with overdose included disorientation, drowsiness, impaired memory, and tachycardia. Based on postmarketing reports, serious outcomes (including fatalities) may occur at dosages higher than the recommended doses, especially with mixed overdoses. In these cases, QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes have also been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Overdose Management No specific antidotes for mirtazapine are known. Contact Poison Control (1-800-222-1222) for the latest recommendations.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of REMERON as a treatment for major depressive disorder was established in 4 placebo-controlled, 6-week trials in adult outpatients meeting DSM-III criteria for major depressive disorder. Patients were titrated with REMERON from a dose range of 5 mg to 35 mg/day. The mean mirtazapine dose for patients who completed these 4 studies ranged from 21 to 32 mg/day. Overall, these studies demonstrated REMERON to be superior to placebo on at least 3 of the following 4 measures: 21-Item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) total score; HDRS Depressed Mood Item; CGI Severity score; and Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Superiority of REMERON over placebo was also found for certain factors of the HDRS, including anxiety/somatization factor and sleep disturbance factor. Examination of age and gender subsets of the population did not reveal any differential responsiveness on the basis of these subgroupings. In a longer-term study, patients meeting (DSM-IV) criteria for major depressive disorder who had responded during an initial 8 to 12 weeks of acute treatment on REMERON were randomized to continuation of REMERON or placebo for up to 40 weeks of observation for relapse. Response during the open phase was defined as having achieved a HAM-D 17 total score of ≤8 and a CGI-Improvement score of 1 or 2 at 2 consecutive visits beginning with week 6 of the 8 to 12 weeks in the open-label phase of the study. Relapse during the double-blind phase was determined by the individual investigators. Patients receiving continued REMERON treatment experienced significantly lower relapse rates over the subsequent 40 weeks compared to those receiving placebo. This pattern was demonstrated in both male and female patients.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light and moisture. REMERONSolTab orally disintegrating tablets are supplied as: Tablet Strength Tablet Color/Shape Tablet Markings Package Configuration NDC Code 15 mg White, round tablet " T 1 Z " debossed on one side. Box of 5 × 6-unit dose blister packs/ 30 count 0052-0106-30 30 mg White, round tablet " T 2 Z " debossed on one side. Box of 5 × 6-unit dose blister packs/30 count 0052-0108-30 45 mg White, round tablet " T 4 Z " debossed on one side Box of 5 × 6-unit dose blister packs/30 count 0052-0110-30

SPL TEXT:
REMERON MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE STARCH, CORN HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE LACTOSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE Organon;TZ;7 REMERON MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE STARCH, CORN HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE LACTOSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW FERRIC OXIDE RED Red-Brown Organon;TZ;5 REMERON MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE STARCH, CORN HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE LACTOSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW Organon;TZ;3 REMERON MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE STARCH, CORN HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE LACTOSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW MSD;TZ;3 REMERON MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE STARCH, CORN HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (1600000 WAMW) MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE LACTOSE, UNSPECIFIED FORM HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 TITANIUM DIOXIDE FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW FERRIC OXIDE RED red-brown MSD;TZ;5 REMERONSOLTAB MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE ASPARTAME CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE MANNITOL MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED SODIUM BICARBONATE SUCROSE TZ;1 REMERONSOLTAB MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE ASPARTAME CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE MANNITOL MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED SODIUM BICARBONATE SUCROSE TZ;2 REMERONSOLTAB MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE MIRTAZAPINE ASPARTAME CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE CROSPOVIDONE (15 MPA.S AT 5%) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE MANNITOL MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED SODIUM BICARBONATE SUCROSE TZ;4