DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
Tadalafil, USP is a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). Tadalafil has the molecular formula C22H19N3O4 representing a molecular weight of 389.41. The structural formula is: [structure] The chemical designation is pyrazino[1′,2′:1,6]pyrido[3,4-b]indole-1,4-dione, 6-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)2,3,6,7,12,12a-hexahydro-2-methyl-, (6R,12aR)-. It is white to almost white powder that is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and slightly soluble in methylene chloride. Tadalafil Tablets, USP are available as light yellow to yellow coloured oval shaped film coated tablets for oral administration. Each tablet contains 2.5, 5, 10, or 20 mg of tadalafil and the following inactive ingredients: microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate, croscarmellose sodium, sodium lauryl sulphate, low-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose and magnesium stearate. The color coating contains hypromellose, titanium dioxide, lactose monohydrate, iron oxide yellow, triacetin and FD&C yellow #5/tartrazine aluminium lake.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Penile erection during sexual stimulation is caused by increased penile blood flow resulting from the relaxation of penile arteries and corpus cavernosal smooth muscle. This response is mediated by the release of nitric oxide (NO) from nerve terminals and endothelial cells, which stimulates the synthesis of cGMP in smooth muscle cells. Cyclic GMP causes smooth muscle relaxation and increased blood flow into the corpus cavernosum. The inhibition of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) enhances erectile function by increasing the amount of cGMP. Tadalafil inhibits PDE5. Because sexual stimulation is required to initiate the local release of nitric oxide, the inhibition of PDE5 by tadalafil has no effect in the absence of sexual stimulation. The effect of PDE5 inhibition on cGMP concentration in the corpus cavernosum and pulmonary arteries is also observed in the smooth muscle of the prostate, the bladder and their vascular supply. The mechanism for reducing BPH symptoms has not been established. Studies in vitro have demonstrated that tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of PDE5. PDE5 is found in the smooth muscle of the corpus cavernosum, prostate, and bladder as well as in vascular and visceral smooth muscle, skeletal muscle, urethra, platelets, kidney, lung, cerebellum, heart, liver, testis, seminal vesicle, and pancreas. In vitro studies have shown that the effect of tadalafil is more potent on PDE5 than on other phosphodiesterases. These studies have shown that tadalafil is greater than 10,000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE1, PDE2, PDE4, and PDE7 enzymes, which are found in the heart, brain, blood vessels, liver, leukocytes, skeletal muscle, and other organs. Tadalafil is greater than 10,000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE3, an enzyme found in the heart and blood vessels. Additionally, tadalafil is 700-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE6, which is found in the retina and is responsible for phototransduction. Tadalafil is greater than 9,000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE8, PDE9, and PDE10. Tadalafil is 14-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE11A1 and 40-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE11A4, two of the four known forms of PDE11. PDE11 is an enzyme found in human prostate, testes, skeletal muscle and in other tissues (e.g., adrenal cortex). In vitro, tadalafil inhibits human recombinant PDE11A1 and, to a lesser degree, PDE11A4 activities at concentrations within the therapeutic range. The physiological role and clinical consequence of PDE11 inhibition in humans have not been defined. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on Blood Pressure Tadalafil 20 mg administered to healthy male subjects produced no significant difference compared to placebo in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure (difference in the mean maximal decrease of 1.6/0.8 mm Hg, respectively) and in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (difference in the mean maximal decrease of 0.2/4.6 mm Hg, respectively). In addition, there was no significant effect on heart rate. Effects on Blood Pressure When Administered with Nitrates In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil (5 mg to 20 mg) was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. Therefore, the use of tadalafil in patients taking any form of nitrates is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1)]. A study was conducted to assess the degree of interaction between nitroglycerin and tadalafil, should nitroglycerin be required in an emergency situation after tadalafil was taken. This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in 150 male subjects at least 40 years of age (including subjects with diabetes mellitus and/or controlled hypertension) and receiving daily doses of tadalafil 20 mg or matching placebo for 7 days. Subjects were administered a single dose of 0.4 mg sublingual nitroglycerin (NTG) at pre-specified timepoints, following their last dose of tadalafil (2, 4, 8, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after tadalafil). The objective of the study was to determine when, after tadalafil dosing, no apparent blood pressure interaction was observed. In this study, a significant interaction between tadalafil and NTG was observed at each timepoint up to and including 24 hours. At 48 hours, by most hemodynamic measures, the interaction between tadalafil and NTG was not observed, although a few more tadalafil subjects compared to placebo experienced greater blood-pressure lowering at this timepoint. After 48 hours, the interaction was not detectable (see Figure 1). [figure1] Figure 1: Mean Maximal Change in Blood Pressure (Tadalafil Minus Placebo, Point Estimate with 90% CI) in Response to Sublingual Nitroglycerin at 2 (Supine Only), 4, 8, 24, 48, 72, and 96 Hours after the Last Dose of Tadalafil 20 mg or Placebo Therefore, tadalafil administration with nitrates is contraindicated. In a patient who has taken tadalafil, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life-threatening situation, at least 48 hours should elapse after the last dose of tadalafil before nitrate administration is considered. In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [see Contraindications (4.1)]. Effect on Blood Pressure When Administered With Alpha-Blockers Six randomized, double-blinded, crossover clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to investigate the potential interaction of tadalafil with alpha-blocker agents in healthy male subjects [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. In four studies, a single oral dose of tadalafil was administered to healthy male subjects taking daily (at least 7 days duration) an oral alpha-blocker. In two studies, a daily oral alpha-blocker (at least 7 days duration) was administered to healthy male subjects taking repeated daily doses of tadalafil. Doxazosin — Three clinical pharmacology studies were conducted with tadalafil and doxazosin, an alpha[1]adrenergic blocker. In the first doxazosin study, a single oral dose of tadalafil 20 mg or placebo was administered in a 2-period, crossover design to healthy subjects taking oral doxazosin 8 mg daily (N=18 subjects). Doxazosin was administered at the same time as tadalafil or placebo after a minimum of seven days of doxazosin dosing (see Table 5 and Figure 2). Table 5: Doxazosin (8 mg/day) Study 1: Mean Maximal Decrease (95% CI) in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) Tadalafil 20 mg Supine 3.6 (-1.5, 8.8) Standing 9.8 (4.1, 15.5) [figure2] Figure 2: Doxazosin Study 1: Mean Change from Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure Blood pressure was measured manually at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hours after tadalafil or placebo administration. Outliers were defined as subjects with a standing systolic blood pressure of less than 85 mm Hg or a decrease from baseline in standing systolic blood pressure of greater than 30 mm Hg at one or more time points. There were nine and three outliers following administration of tadalafil 20 mg and placebo, respectively. Five and two subjects were outliers due to a decrease from baseline in standing systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg, while five and one subject were outliers due to standing systolic BP less than 85 mm Hg following tadalafil and placebo, respectively. Severe adverse events potentially related to blood-pressure effects were assessed. No such events were reported following placebo. Two such events were reported following administration of tadalafil. Vertigo was reported in one subject that began 7 hours after dosing and lasted about 5 days. This subject previously experienced a mild episode of vertigo on doxazosin and placebo. Dizziness was reported in another subject that began 25 minutes after dosing and lasted 1 day. No syncope was reported. In the second doxazosin study, a single oral dose of tadalafil 20 mg was administered to healthy subjects taking oral doxazosin, either 4 mg or 8 mg daily. The study (N=72 subjects) was conducted in three parts, each a 3-period crossover. In part A (N=24), subjects were titrated to doxazosin 4 mg administered daily at 8 a.m. Tadalafil was administered at either 8 a.m., 4 p.m., or 8 p.m. There was no placebo control. In part B (N=24), subjects were titrated to doxazosin 4 mg administered daily at 8 p.m. Tadalafil was administered at either 8 a.m., 4 p.m., or 8 p.m. There was no placebo control. In part C (N=24), subjects were titrated to doxazosin 8 mg administered daily at 8 a.m. In this part, tadalafil or placebo were administered at either 8 a.m. or 8 p.m. The placebo-subtracted mean maximal decreases in systolic blood pressure over a 12-hour period after dosing in the placebo-controlled portion of the study (part C) are shown in Table 6 and Figure 3. Table 6: Doxazosin (8 mg/day) Study 2 (Part C): Mean Maximal Decrease in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) Tadalafil 20 mg at 8 a.m. Tadalafil 20 mg at 8 p.m. Ambulatory Blood-Pressure Monitoring (ABPM) 7 8 [figure3] Figure 3: Doxazosin Study 2 (Part C): Mean Change from Time-Matched Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure Blood pressure was measured by ABPM every 15 to 30 minutes for up to 36 hours after tadalafil or placebo. Subjects were categorized as outliers if one or more systolic blood pressure readings of less than 85 mm Hg were recorded or one or more decreases in systolic blood pressure of greater than 30 mm Hg from a time-matched baseline occurred during the analysis interval. Of the 24 subjects in part C, 16 subjects were categorized as outliers following administration of tadalafil and 6 subjects were categorized as outliers following placebo during the 24-hour period after 8 a.m. dosing of tadalafil or placebo. Of these, 5 and 2 were outliers due to systolic BP less than 85 mm Hg, while 15 and 4 were outliers due to a decrease from baseline in systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg following tadalafil and placebo, respectively. During the 24-hour period after 8 p.m. dosing, 17 subjects were categorized as outliers following administration of tadalafil and 7 subjects following placebo. Of these, 10 and 2 subjects were outliers due to systolic BP less than 85 mm Hg, while 15 and 5 subjects were outliers due to a decrease from baseline in systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg, following tadalafil and placebo, respectively. Some additional subjects in both the tadalafil and placebo groups were categorized as outliers in the period beyond 24 hours. Severe adverse events potentially related to blood-pressure effects were assessed. In the study (N=72 subjects), 2 such events were reported following administration of tadalafil (symptomatic hypotension in one subject that began 10 hours after dosing and lasted approximately 1 hour, and dizziness in another subject that began 11 hours after dosing and lasted 2 minutes). No such events were reported following placebo. In the period prior to tadalafil dosing, one severe event (dizziness) was reported in a subject during the doxazosin run-in phase. In the third doxazosin study, healthy subjects (N=45 treated; 37 completed) received 28 days of once per day dosing of tadalafil 5 mg or placebo in a two-period crossover design. After 7 days, doxazosin was initiated at 1 mg and titrated up to 4 mg daily over the last 21 days of each period (7 days on 1 mg; 7 days of 2 mg; 7 days of 4 mg doxazosin). The results are shown in Table 7. Table 7: Doxazosin Study 3: Mean Maximal Decrease (95% CI) in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure Tadalafil 5 mg Day 1 of 4 mg Doxazosin Supine 2.4 (-0.4, 5.2) Standing -0.5 (-4.0, 3.1) Day 7 of 4 mg Doxazosin Supine 2.8 (-0.1, 5.7) Standing 1.1 (-2.9, 5.0) Blood pressure was measured manually pre-dose at two time points (-30 and -15 minutes) and then at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 24 hours post dose on the first day of each doxazosin dose, (1 mg, 2 mg, 4 mg), as well as on the seventh day of 4 mg doxazosin administration. Following the first dose of doxazosin 1 mg, there were no outliers on tadalafil 5 mg and one outlier on placebo due to a decrease from baseline in standing systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg. There were 2 outliers on tadalafil 5 mg and none on placebo following the first dose of doxazosin 2 mg due to a decrease from baseline in standing systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg. There were no outliers on tadalafil 5 mg and two on placebo following the first dose of doxazosin 4 mg due to a decrease from baseline in standing systolic BP of greater than 30 mm Hg. There was one outlier on tadalafil 5 mg and three on placebo following the first dose of doxazosin 4 mg due to standing systolic BP less than 85 mm Hg. Following the seventh day of doxazosin 4 mg, there were no outliers on tadalafil 5 mg, one subject on placebo had a decrease greater than 30 mm Hg in standing systolic blood pressure, and one subject on placebo had standing systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg. All adverse events potentially related to blood pressure effects were rated as mild or moderate. There were two episodes of syncope in this study, one subject following a dose of tadalafil 5 mg alone, and another subject following coadministration of tadalafil 5 mg and doxazosin 4 mg. Tamsulosin— In the first tamsulosin study, a single oral dose of tadalafil 10 mg, 20 mg, or placebo was administered in a 3 period, crossover design to healthy subjects taking 0.4 mg once per day tamsulosin, a selective alpha[1A]adrenergic blocker (N=18 subjects). Tadalafil or placebo was administered 2 hours after tamsulosin following a minimum of seven days of tamsulosin dosing. Table 8: Tamsulosin (0.4 mg/day) Study 1: Mean Maximal Decrease (95% CI) in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) Tadalafil 10 mg Tadalafil 20 mg Supine 3.2 (-2.3, 8.6) 3.2 (-2.3, 8.7) Standing 1.7 (-4.7, 8.1) 2.3 (-4.1, 8.7) Blood pressure was measured manually at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hours after tadalafil or placebo dosing. There were 2, 2, and 1 outliers (subjects with a decrease from baseline in standing systolic blood pressure of greater than 30 mm Hg at one or more time points) following administration of tadalafil 10 mg, 20 mg, and placebo, respectively. There were no subjects with a standing systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg. No severe adverse events potentially related to blood-pressure effects were reported. No syncope was reported. In the second tamsulosin study, healthy subjects (N=39 treated; and 35 completed) received 14 days of once per day dosing of tadalafil 5 mg or placebo in a two-period crossover design. Daily dosing of tamsulosin 0.4 mg was added for the last seven days of each period. Table 9: Tamsulosin Study 2: Mean Maximal Decrease (95% CI) in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure Tadalafil 5 mg Day 1 of 0.4 mg Tamsulosin Supine -0.1 (-2.2, 1.9) Standing 0.9 (-1.4, 3.2) Day 7 of 0.4 mg Tamsulosin Supine 1.2 (-1.2, 3.6) Standing 1.2 (-1.0, 3.5) Blood pressure was measured manually pre-dose at two time points (-30 and -15 minutes) and then at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hours post dose on the first, sixth and seventh days of tamsulosin administration. There were no outliers (subjects with a decrease from baseline in standing systolic blood pressure of greater than 30 mm Hg at one or more time points). One subject on placebo plus tamsulosin (Day 7) and one subject on tadalafil plus tamsulosin (Day 6) had standing systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg. No severe adverse events potentially related to blood pressure were reported. No syncope was reported. Alfuzosin— A single oral dose of tadalafil 20 mg or placebo was administered in a 2-period, crossover design to healthy subjects taking once-daily alfuzosin HCl 10 mg extended-release tablets, an alpha[1]-adrenergic blocker (N=17 completed subjects). Tadalafil or placebo was administered 4 hours after alfuzosin following a minimum of seven days of alfuzosin dosing. Table 10: Alfuzosin (10 mg/day) Study: Mean Maximal Decrease (95% CI) in Systolic Blood Pressure Placebo-subtracted mean maximal decrease in systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) Tadalafil 20 mg Supine 2.2 (-0.9,-5.2) Standing 4.4 (-0.2, 8.9) Blood pressure was measured manually at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 20, and 24 hours after tadalafil or placebo dosing. There was 1 outlier (subject with a standing systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg) following administration of tadalafil 20 mg. There were no subjects with a decrease from baseline in standing systolic blood pressure of greater than 30 mm Hg at one or more time points. No severe adverse events potentially related to blood pressure effects were reported. No syncope was reported. Effects on Blood Pressure When Administered with Antihypertensives Amlodipine — A study was conducted to assess the interaction of amlodipine (5 mg daily) and tadalafil 10 mg. There was no effect of tadalafil on amlodipine blood levels and no effect of amlodipine on tadalafil blood levels. The mean reduction in supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure due to tadalafil 10 mg in subjects taking amlodipine was 3/2 mm Hg, compared to placebo. In a similar study using tadalafil 20 mg, there were no clinically significant differences between tadalafil and placebo in subjects taking amlodipine. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (with and without other antihypertensives) — A study was conducted to assess the interaction of angiotensin II receptor blockers and tadalafil 20 mg. Subjects in the study were taking any marketed angiotensin II receptor blocker, either alone, as a component of a combination product, or as part of a multiple antihypertensive regimen. Following dosing, ambulatory measurements of blood pressure revealed differences between tadalafil and placebo of 8/4 mm Hg in systolic/diastolic blood pressure. Bendrofluazide — A study was conducted to assess the interaction of bendrofluazide (2.5 mg daily) and tadalafil 10 mg. Following dosing, the mean reduction in supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure due to tadalafil 10 mg in subjects taking bendrofluazide was 6/4 mm Hg, compared to placebo. Enalapril — A study was conducted to assess the interaction of enalapril (10 mg to 20 mg daily) and tadalafil 10 mg. Following dosing, the mean reduction in supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure due to tadalafil 10 mg in subjects taking enalapril was 4/1 mm Hg, compared to placebo. Metoprolol — A study was conducted to assess the interaction of sustained-release metoprolol (25 mg to 200 mg daily) and tadalafil 10 mg. Following dosing, the mean reduction in supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure due to tadalafil 10 mg in subjects taking metoprolol was 5/3 mm Hg, compared to placebo. Effects on Blood Pressure When Administered with Alcohol Alcohol and PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, are mild systemic vasodilators. The interaction of tadalafil with alcohol was evaluated in 3 clinical pharmacology studies. In 2 of these, alcohol was administered at a dose of 0.7 g/kg, which is equivalent to approximately 6 ounces of 80-proof vodka in an 80-kg male, and tadalafil was administered at a dose of 10 mg in one study and 20 mg in another. In both these studies, all patients imbibed the entire alcohol dose within 10 minutes of starting. In one of these two studies, blood alcohol levels of 0.08% were confirmed. In these two studies, more patients had clinically significant decreases in blood pressure on the combination of tadalafil and alcohol as compared to alcohol alone. Some subjects reported postural dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension was observed in some subjects. When tadalafil 20 mg was administered with a lower dose of alcohol (0.6 g/kg, which is equivalent to approximately 4 ounces of 80-proof vodka, administered in less than 10 minutes), orthostatic hypotension was not observed, dizziness occurred with similar frequency to alcohol alone, and the hypotensive effects of alcohol were not potentiated. Tadalafil did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations and alcohol did not affect tadalafil plasma concentrations. Effects on Exercise Stress Testing The effects of tadalafil on cardiac function, hemodynamics, and exercise tolerance were investigated in a single clinical pharmacology study. In this blinded crossover trial, 23 subjects with stable coronary artery disease and evidence of exercise-induced cardiac ischemia were enrolled. The primary endpoint was time to cardiac ischemia. The mean difference in total exercise time was 3 seconds (tadalafil 10 mg minus placebo), which represented no clinically meaningful difference. Further statistical analysis demonstrated that tadalafil was non-inferior to placebo with respect to time to ischemia. Of note, in this study, in some subjects who received tadalafil followed by sublingual nitroglycerin in the post-exercise period, clinically significant reductions in blood pressure were observed, consistent with the augmentation by tadalafil of the blood-pressure-lowering effects of nitrates. Effects on Vision Single oral doses of phosphodiesterase inhibitors have demonstrated transient dose-related impairment of color discrimination (blue/green), using the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue test, with peak effects near the time of peak plasma levels. This finding is consistent with the inhibition of PDE6, which is involved in phototransduction in the retina. In a study to assess the effects of a single dose of tadalafil 40 mg on vision (N=59), no effects were observed on visual acuity, intraocular pressure, or pupilometry. Across all clinical studies with tadalafil, reports of changes in color vision were rare (less than 0.1% of patients). Effects on Sperm Characteristics Three studies were conducted in men to assess the potential effect on sperm characteristics of tadalafil 10 mg (one 6 month study) and 20 mg (one 6 month and one 9 month study) administered daily. There were no adverse effects on sperm morphology or sperm motility in any of the three studies. In the study of 10 mg tadalafil for 6 months and the study of 20 mg tadalafil for 9 months, results showed a decrease in mean sperm concentrations relative to placebo, although these differences were not clinically meaningful. This effect was not seen in the study of 20 mg tadalafil taken for 6 months. In addition there was no adverse effect on mean concentrations of reproductive hormones, testosterone, luteinizing hormone or follicle stimulating hormone with either 10 mg or 20 mg of tadalafil compared to placebo. Effects on Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of a single 100-mg dose of tadalafil on the QT interval was evaluated at the time of peak tadalafil concentration in a randomized, double-blinded, placebo, and active (intravenous ibutilide) -controlled crossover study in 90 healthy males aged 18 to 53 years. The mean change in QTc (Fridericia QT correction) for tadalafil, relative to placebo, was 3.5 milliseconds (two-sided 90% CI=1.9, 5.1). The mean change in QTc (Individual QT correction) for tadalafil, relative to placebo, was 2.8 milliseconds (two-sided 90% CI=1.2, 4.4). A 100-mg dose of tadalafil (5 times the highest recommended dose) was chosen because this dose yields exposures covering those observed upon coadministration of tadalafil with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors or those observed in renal impairment. In this study, the mean increase in heart rate associated with a 100-mg dose of tadalafil compared to placebo was 3.1 beats per minute. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Over a dose range of 2.5 mg to 20 mg, tadalafil exposure (AUC) increases proportionally with dose in healthy subjects. Steady-state plasma concentrations are attained within 5 days of once per day dosing and exposure is approximately 1.6-fold greater than after a single dose. Mean tadalafil concentrations measured after the administration of a single oral dose of 20 mg and single and once daily multiple doses of 5 mg, from a separate study, (see Figure 4) to healthy male subjects are depicted in Figure 4. [figure4] Figure 4: Plasma tadalafil concentrations (mean ± SD) following a single 20-mg tadalafil dose and single and once daily multiple doses of 5 mg Absorption — After single oral-dose administration, the maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) of tadalafil is achieved between 30 minutes and 6 hours (median time of 2 hours). Absolute bioavailability of tadalafil following oral dosing has not been determined. The rate and extent of absorption of tadalafil are not influenced by food; thus tadalafil tablets may be taken with or without food. Distribution — The mean apparent volume of distribution following oral administration is approximately 63 L, indicating that tadalafil is distributed into tissues. At therapeutic concentrations, 94% of tadalafil in plasma is bound to proteins. Less than 0.0005% of the administered dose appeared in the semen of healthy subjects. Metabolism — Tadalafil is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 to a catechol metabolite. The catechol metabolite undergoes extensive methylation and glucuronidation to form the methylcatechol and methylcatechol glucuronide conjugate, respectively. The major circulating metabolite is the methylcatechol glucuronide. Methylcatechol concentrations are less than 10% of glucuronide concentrations. In vitro data suggests that metabolites are not expected to be pharmacologically active at observed metabolite concentrations. Excretion — The mean oral clearance for tadalafil is 2.5 L/hr and the mean terminal half-life is 17.5 hours in healthy subjects. Tadalafil is excreted predominantly as metabolites, mainly in the feces (approximately 61% of the dose) and to a lesser extent in the urine (approximately 36% of the dose). Geriatric — Healthy male elderly subjects (65 years or over) had a lower oral clearance of tadalafil, resulting in 25% higher exposure (AUC) with no effect on Cmax relative to that observed in healthy subjects 19 to 45 years of age. No dose adjustment is warranted based on age alone. However, greater sensitivity to medications in some older individuals should be considered [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Patients with Diabetes Mellitus — In male patients with diabetes mellitus after a 10 mg tadalafil dose, exposure (AUC) was reduced approximately 19% and Cmax was 5% lower than that observed in healthy subjects. No dose adjustment is warranted. Patients with BPH — In patients with BPH following single and multiple-doses of 20 mg tadalafil, no statistically significant differences in exposure (AUC and Cmax) were observed between elderly (70 to 85 years) and younger (less than or equal to 60 years of age) subjects. No dose adjustment is warranted.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1.1 Erectile Dysfunction Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). 1.2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). 1.3 Erectile Dysfunction and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH). 1.4 Limitation of Use If tadalafil is used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks because the incremental benefit of tadalafil decreases from 4 weeks until 26 weeks, and the incremental benefit of tadalafil beyond 26 weeks is unknown [see Clinical Studies (14.3)].

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4.1 Nitrates Administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, either regularly and/or intermittently, is contraindicated. In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Tadalafil is contraindicated in patients with a known serious hypersensitivity to tadalafil (Tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA®). Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and exfoliative dermatitis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use Tadalafil in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including Tadalafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Do not split Tadalafil tablets; entire dose should be taken. 2.1 Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed for Erectile Dysfunction The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for use as needed in most patients is 10 mg, taken prior to anticipated sexual activity. The dose may be increased to 20 mg or decreased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day in most patients. Tadalafil tablets for use as needed were shown to improve erectile function compared to placebo up to 36 hours following dosing. Therefore, when advising patients on optimal use of tadalafil tablets, this should be taken into consideration. 2.2 Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use for Erectile Dysfunction The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 2.5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day, without regard to timing of sexual activity. The tadalafil tablets dose for once daily use may be increased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. 2.3 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day. When therapy for BPH is initiated with tadalafil and finasteride, the recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day for up to 26 weeks. 2.4 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Erectile Dysfunction and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day, without regard to timing of sexual activity. 2.5 Use with Food Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food. 2.6 Use in Specific Populations Renal Impairment Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed Creatinine clearance 30 mL/min to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 5 mg not more than once per day is recommended, and the maximum dose is 10 mg not more than once in every 48 hours. Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: The maximum dose is 5 mg not more than once in every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)and Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Erectile Dysfunction/Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Creatinine clearance 30 mL/min to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 2.5 mg is recommended. An increase to 5 mg may be considered based on individual response. Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Hepatic Impairment Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): The dose should not exceed 10 mg once per day. The use of tadalafil tablets once per day have not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment and therefore, caution is advised. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): Tadalafil tablets for once daily use has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, caution is advised if tadalafil tablets for once daily use is prescribed to these patients. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 2.7 Concomitant Medications Nitrates Concomitant use of nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1)]. Alpha-Blockers ED — When tadalafil tablets are coadministered with an alpha-blocker in patients being treated for ED, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment, and tadalafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. BPH — Tadalafil tablets are not recommended for use in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of BPH [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose of tadalafil tablets is 10 mg, not to exceed once every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose is 2.5 mg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Drug Interactions (7.2)].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Tadalafil was administered to over 9000 men during clinical trials worldwide. In trials of tadalafil tablets for once daily use, a total of 1434, 905, and 115 were treated for at least 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years, respectively. For tadalafil tablets for use as needed, over 1300 and 1000 subjects were treated for at least 6 months and 1 year, respectively. Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed forED In eight primary placebo-controlled clinical studies of 12 weeks duration, mean age was 59 years (range 22 to 88) and the discontinuation rate due to adverse events in patients treated with tadalafil 10 or 20 mg was 3.1%, compared to 1.4% in placebo treated patients. When taken as recommended in the placebo-controlled clinical trials, the following adverse reactions were reported (see Table 1) for tadalafil tablets for use as needed: Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported by greater than or equal to 2% of Patients Treated with Tadalafil tablets (10 mg or 20 mg) and More Frequent on Drug than Placebo in the Eight Primary Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies (Including a Study in Patients with Diabetes) for Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed for ED a The term flushing includes: facial flushing and flushing Adverse Reaction Placebo (N=476) Tadalafil 5 mg (N=151) Tadalafil 10 mg (N=394) Tadalafil 20 mg (N=635) Headache 5% 11% 11% 15% Dyspepsia 1% 4% 8% 10% Back pain 3% 3% 5% 6% Myalgia 1% 1% 4% 3% Nasal congestion 1% 2% 3% 3% Flushinga 1% 2% 3% 3% Pain in limb 1% 1% 3% 3% Tadalafil tabletsfor Once Daily Use for ED In three placebo-controlled clinical trials of 12 or 24 weeks duration, mean age was 58 years (range 21 to 82) and the discontinuation rate due to adverse events in patients treated with tadalafil was 4.1%, compared to 2.8% in placebo-treated patients. The following adverse reactions were reported (see Table 2) in clinical trials of 12 weeks duration: Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported by greater than or equal to 2% of Patients Treated with Tadalafil for Once Daily Use (2.5 mg or 5 mg) and More Frequent on Drug than Placebo in the Three Primary Placebo-Controlled Phase 3 Studies of 12 weeks Treatment Duration (Including a Study in Patients with Diabetes) for Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use for ED Adverse Reaction Placebo (N=248) Tadalafil 2.5 mg (N=196) Tadalafil 5 mg (N=304) Headache 5% 3% 6% Dyspepsia 2% 4% 5% Nasopharyngitis 4% 4% 3% Back pain 1% 3% 3% Upper respiratory tract infection 1% 3% 3% Flushing 1% 1% 3% Myalgia 1% 2% 2% Cough 0% 4% 2% Diarrhea 0% 1% 2% Nasal congestion 0% 2% 2% Pain in extremity 0% 1% 2% Urinary tract infection 0% 2% 0% Gastroesophageal reflux disease 0% 2% 1% Abdominal pain 0% 2% 1% The following adverse reactions were reported (see Table 3) over 24 weeks treatment duration in one placebo-controlled clinical study: Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported by greater than or equal to 2% of Patients Treated with Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use (2.5 mg or 5 mg) and More Frequent on Drug than Placebo in One Placebo-Controlled Clinical Study of 24 Weeks Treatment Duration for Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use for ED Adverse Reaction Placebo (N=94) Tadalafil 2.5 mg (N=96) Tadalafil 5 mg (N=97) Nasopharyngitis 5% 6% 6% Gastroenteritis 2% 3% 5% Back pain 3% 5% 2% Upper respiratory tract infection 0% 3% 4% Dyspepsia 1% 4% 1% Gastroesophageal reflux disease 0% 3% 2% Myalgia 2% 4% 1% Hypertension 0% 1% 3% Nasal congestion 0% 0% 4% Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use for BPH and for ED and BPH In three placebo-controlled clinical trials of 12 weeks duration, two in patients with BPH and one in patients with ED and BPH, the mean age was 63 years (range 44 to 93) and the discontinuation rate due to adverse events in patients treated with tadalafil was 3.6% compared to 1.6% in placebo-treated patients. Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation reported by at least 2 patients treated with tadalafil included headache, upper abdominal pain, and myalgia. The following adverse reactions were reported (see Table 4). Table 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported by greater than or equal to 1% of Patients Treated with Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use (5 mg) and More Frequent on Drug than Placebo in Three Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies of 12 Weeks Treatment Duration, including Two Studies for Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use for BPH and One Study for ED and BPH Adverse Reaction Placebo (N=576) Tadalafil 5 mg (N=581) Headache 2.3% 4.1% Dyspepsia 0.2% 2.4% Back pain 1.4% 2.4% Nasopharyngitis 1.6% 2.1% Diarrhea 1.0% 1.4% Pain in extremity 0.0% 1.4% Myalgia 0.3% 1.2% Dizziness 0.5% 1.0% Additional, less frequent adverse reactions (less than 1%) reported in the controlled clinical trials of Tadalafil for BPH or ED and BPH included: gastroesophageal reflux disease, upper abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia, and muscle spasm. Back pain or myalgia was reported at incidence rates described in Tables 1 through 4. In tadalafil clinical pharmacology trials, back pain or myalgia generally occurred 12 to 24 hours after dosing and typically resolved within 48 hours. The back pain/myalgia associated with tadalafil treatment was characterized by diffuse bilateral lower lumbar, gluteal, thigh, or thoracolumbar muscular discomfort and was exacerbated by recumbency. In general, pain was reported as mild or moderate in severity and resolved without medical treatment, but severe back pain was reported with a low frequency (less than 5% of all reports). When medical treatment was necessary, acetaminophen or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were generally effective; however, in a small percentage of subjects who required treatment, a mild narcotic (e.g., codeine) was used. Overall, approximately 0.5% of all subjects treated with tadalafil for on demand use discontinued treatment as a consequence of back pain/myalgia. In the 1-year open label extension study, back pain and myalgia were reported in 5.5% and 1.3% of patients, respectively. Diagnostic testing, including measures for inflammation, muscle injury, or renal damage revealed no evidence of medically significant underlying pathology. Incidence rates for tadalafil for once daily use for ED, BPH and BPH/ED are described in Tables 2, 3 and 4. In studies of tadalafil for once daily use, adverse reactions of back pain and myalgia were generally mild or moderate with a discontinuation rate of less than 1% across all indications. Across placebo-controlled studies with tadalafil for use as needed for ED, diarrhea was reported more frequently inpatients 65 years of age and older who were treated with tadalafil (2.5% of patients) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Across all studies with any tadalafil dose, reports of changes in color vision were rare (less than 0.1% of patients). The following section identifies additional, less frequent events (less than 2%) reported in controlled clinical trials of tadalafil for once daily use or use as needed. A causal relationship of these events to tadalafil is uncertain. Excluded from this list are those events that were minor, those with no plausible relation to drug use, and reports too imprecise to be meaningful: Body as a Whole — asthenia, face edema, fatigue, pain, peripheral edema Cardiovascular — angina pectoris, chest pain, hypotension, myocardial infarction, postural hypotension, palpitations, syncope, tachycardia Digestive — abnormal liver function tests, dry mouth, dysphagia, esophagitis, gastritis, GGTP increased, loose stools, nausea, upper abdominal pain, vomiting, gastroesophageal reflux disease, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage Musculoskeletal — arthralgia, neck pain Nervous — dizziness, hypesthesia, insomnia, paresthesia, somnolence, vertigo Renal and Urinary — renal impairment Respiratory — dyspnea, epistaxis, pharyngitis Skin and Appendages — pruritus, rash, sweating Ophthalmologic — blurred vision, changes in color vision, conjunctivitis (including conjunctival hyperemia), eye pain, lacrimation increase, swelling of eyelids Otologic — sudden decrease or loss of hearing, tinnitus Urogenital — erection increased, spontaneous penile erection 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tadalafil. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion either due to their seriousness, reporting frequency, lack of clear alternative causation, or a combination of these factors. Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular — Serious cardiovascular events, including myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, stroke, chest pain, palpitations, and tachycardia, have been reported postmarketing in temporal association with the use of tadalafil. Most, but not all, of these patients had preexisting cardiovascular risk factors. Many of these events were reported to occur during or shortly after sexual activity, and a few were reported to occur shortly after the use of tadalafil without sexual activity. Others were reported to have occurred hours to days after the use of tadalafil and sexual activity. It is not possible to determine whether these events are related directly to tadalafil, to sexual activity, to the patient’s underlying cardiovascular disease, to a combination of these factors, or to other factors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Body as a Whole — hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and exfoliative dermatitis Nervous — migraine, seizure and seizure recurrence, transient global amnesia Ophthalmologic — visual field defect, retinal vein occlusion, retinal artery occlusion Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision, has been reported rarely postmarketing in temporal association with the use of PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil. Most, but not all, of these patients had underlying anatomic or vascular risk factors for development of NAION, including but not necessarily limited to: low cup to disc ratio (“crowded disc”), age over 50, diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, and smoking. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Otologic — Cases of sudden decrease or loss of hearing have been reported postmarketing in temporal association with the use of PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil. In some of the cases, medical conditions and other factors were reported that may have also played a role in the otologic adverse events. In many cases, medical follow-up information was limited. It is not possible to determine whether these reported events are related directly to the use of tadalafil, to the patient’s underlying risk factors for hearing loss, a combination of these factors, or to other factors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Urogenital — priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)].

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7.1 Potential for Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Tadalafil Nitrates — Administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, is contraindicated. In clinical pharmacology studies tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. In a patient who has taken tadalafil, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life-threatening situation, at least 48 hours should elapse after the last dose of tadalafil before nitrate administration is considered. In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Contraindications (4.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Alpha-Blockers — Caution is advised when PDE5 inhibitors are coadministered with alpha-blockers. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, and alpha-adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood-pressure-lowering effects. When vasodilators are used in combination, an additive effect on blood pressure may be anticipated. Clinical pharmacology studies have been conducted with coadministration of tadalafil with doxazosin, tamsulosin or alfuzosin. [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Antihypertensives — PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, are mild systemic vasodilators. Clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to assess the effect of tadalafil on the potentiation of the blood-pressure-lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medications (amlodipine, angiotensin II receptor blockers, bendrofluazide, enalapril, and metoprolol). Small reductions in blood pressure occurred following coadministration of tadalafil with these agents compared with placebo. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Alcohol — Both alcohol and tadalafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, act as mild vasodilators. When mild vasodilators are taken in combination, blood-pressure-lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased. Substantial consumption of alcohol (e.g., 5 units or greater) in combination with tadalafil can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms, including increase in heart rate, decrease in standing blood pressure, dizziness, and headache. Tadalafil did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations and alcohol did not affect tadalafil plasma concentrations. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Tadalafil [See Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Antacids — Simultaneous administration of an antacid (magnesium hydroxide/aluminum hydroxide) and tadalafil reduced the apparent rate of absorption of tadalafil without altering exposure (AUC) to tadalafil. H2 Antagonists (e.g. Nizatidine) — An increase in gastric pH resulting from administration of nizatidine had no significant effect on pharmacokinetics. Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors — Tadalafil is a substrate of and predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4. Studies have shown that drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 can increase tadalafil exposure. CYP3A4 (e.g., Ketoconazole) — Ketoconazole (400 mg daily), a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, increased tadalafil 20 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 312% and Cmax by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ketoconazole (200 mg daily) increased tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 107% and Cmax by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as erythromycin, itraconazole, and grapefruit juice, would likely increase tadalafil exposure. HIV Protease inhibitor — Ritonavir (500 mg or 600 mg twice daily at steady state), an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil 20-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32% with a 30% reduction in C max , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), increased tadalafil 20-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 124% with no change in Cmax , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other HIV protease inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. Cytochrome P450 Inducers — Studies have shown that drugs that induce CYP3A4 can decrease tadalafil exposure. CYP3A4 (e.g., Rifampin) — Rifampin (600 mg daily), a CYP3A4 inducer, reduced tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 88% and Cmax by 46%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital, would likely decrease tadalafil exposure. No dose adjustment is warranted. The reduced exposure of tadalafil with the coadministration of rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers can be anticipated to decrease the efficacy of tadalafil for once daily use; the magnitude of decreased efficacy is unknown. 7.3 Potential for Tadalafil to Affect Other Drugs Aspirin — Tadalafil did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by aspirin. Cytochrome P450 Substrates — Tadalafil is not expected to cause clinically significant inhibition or induction of the clearance of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. Studies have shown that tadalafil does not inhibit or induce P450 isoforms CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1. CYP1A2 (e.g. Theophylline) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. When tadalafil was administered to subjects taking theophylline, a small augmentation (3 beats per minute) of the increase in heart rate associated with theophylline was observed. CYP2C9 (e.g. Warfarin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or R-warfarin, nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin. CYP3A4 (e.g. Midazolam or Lovastatin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to midazolam or lovastatin. P-glycoprotein (e.g. Digoxin) — Coadministration of tadalafil (40 mg once per day) for 10 days did not have a significant effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin (0.25 mg/day) in healthy subjects.

OVERDOSAGE:
Single doses up to 500 mg have been given to healthy subjects, and multiple daily doses up to 100 mg have been given to patients. Adverse events were similar to those seen at lower doses. In cases of overdose, standard supportive measures should be adopted as required. Hemodialysis contributes negligibly to tadalafil elimination.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14.1 Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed for ED The efficacy and safety of tadalafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction has been evaluated in 22 clinical trials of up to 24-weeks duration, involving over 4000 patients. Tadalafil, when taken as needed up to once per day, was shown to be effective in improving erectile function in men with erectile dysfunction (ED). Tadalafil was studied in the general ED population in 7 randomized, multicenter, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm design, primary efficacy and safety studies of 12-weeks duration. Two of these studies were conducted in the United States and 5 were conducted in centers outside the US. Additional efficacy and safety studies were performed in ED patients with diabetes mellitus and in patients who developed ED status post bilateral nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy. In these 7 trials, tadalafil was taken as needed, at doses ranging from 2.5 mg to 20 mg, up to once per day. Patients were free to choose the time interval between dose administration and the time of sexual attempts. Food and alcohol intake were not restricted. Several assessment tools were used to evaluate the effect of tadalafil on erectile function. The 3 primary outcome measures were the Erectile Function (EF) domain of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) and Questions 2 and 3 from Sexual Encounter Profile (SEP). The IIEF is a 4-week recall questionnaire that was administered at the end of a treatment-free baseline period and subsequently at follow-up visits after randomization. The IIEF EF domain has a 30point total score, where higher scores reflect better erectile function. SEP is a diary in which patients recorded each sexual attempt made throughout the study. SEP Question 2 asks, “Were you able to insert your penis into the partner’s vagina?” SEP Question 3 asks, “Did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse?” The overall percentage of successful attempts to insert the penis into the vagina (SEP2) and to maintain the erection for successful intercourse (SEP3) is derived for each patient. Results in ED Population in US Trials — The 2 primary US efficacy and safety trials included a total of 402 men with erectile dysfunction, with a mean age of 59 years (range 27 to 87 years). The population was 78% White, 14% Black, 7% Hispanic, and 1% of other ethnicities, and included patients with ED of various severities, etiologies (organic, psychogenic, mixed), and with multiple co-morbid conditions, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease. Most (greater than 90%) patients reported ED of at least 1-year duration. Study A was conducted primarily in academic centers. Study B was conducted primarily in community-based urology practices. In each of these 2 trials, tadalafil 20 mg showed clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvements in all 3 primary efficacy variables (see Table 11). The treatment effect of tadalafil did not diminish over time. Table 11: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the Primary Efficacy Variables in the Two Primary US Trials Study A Study B Placebo Tadalafil 20 mg Placebo Tadalafil 20 mg (N=49) (N=146) p-value (N=48) (N=159) p-value EF Domain Score Endpoint 13.5 19.5 13.6 22.5 Change from baseline -0.2 6.9 <.001 0.3 9.3 <.001 Insertion of Penis (SEP2) Endpoint 39% 62% 43% 77% Change from baseline 2% 26% <.001 2% 32% <.001 Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Endpoint 25% 50% 23% 64% Change from baseline 5% 34% <.001 4% 44% <.001 Results in General ED Population in Trials Outside the US — The 5 primary efficacy and safety studies conducted in the general ED population outside the US included 1112 patients, with a mean age of 59 years (range 21 to 82 years). The population was 76% White, 1% Black, 3% Hispanic, and 20% of other ethnicities, and included patients with ED of various severities, etiologies (organic, psychogenic, mixed), and with multiple co-morbid conditions, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease. Most (90%) patients reported ED of at least 1-year duration. In these 5 trials, tadalafil 5 mg, 10 mg, and 20 mg showed clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvements in all 3 primary efficacy variables (see Tables 12, 13 and 14). The treatment effect of tadalafil did not diminish over time. Table 12: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the EF Domain of the IIEF in the General ED Population in Five Primary Trials Outside the US a Treatment duration in Study F was 6 months Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg Tadalafil 10 mg Tadalafil 20 mg Study C Endpoint [Change from baseline] 15.0 [0.7] 17.9 [4.0] 20.0 [5.6] p=.006 p<.001 Study D Endpoint [Change from baseline] 14.4 [1.1] 17.5 [5.1] 20.6 [6.0] p=.002 p<.001 Study E Endpoint [Change from baseline] 18.1 [2.6] 22.6 [8.1] 25.0 [8.0] p<.001 p<.001 Study Fa Endpoint [Change from baseline] 12.7 [-1.6] 22.8 [6.8] p<.001 Study G Endpoint [Change from baseline] 14.5 [-0.9] 21.2 [6.6] 23.3 [8.0] p<.001 p<.001 Table 13: Mean Post-Baseline Success Rate and Change from Baseline for SEP Question 2 (“Were you able to insert your penis into the partner’s vagina?”) in the General ED Population in Five Pivotal Trials Outside the US a Treatment duration in Study F was 6 months Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg Tadalafil 10 mg Tadalafil 20 mg Study C Endpoint [Change from baseline] 49% [6%] 57% [15%] 73% [29%] p=.063 p<.001 Study D Endpoint [Change from baseline] 46% [2%] 56% [18%] 68% [15%] p=.008 p<.001 Study E Endpoint [Change from baseline] 55% [10%] 77% [35%] 85% [35%] p<.001 p<.001 Study Fa Endpoint [Change from baseline] 42% [-8%] 81% [27%] p<.001 Study G Endpoint [Change from baseline] 45% [-6%] 73% [21%] 76% [21%] p<.001 p<.001 Table 14: Mean Post-Baseline Success Rate and Change from Baseline for SEP Question 3 (“Did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse?”) in the General ED Population in Five Pivotal Trials Outside the US a Treatment duration in Study F was 6 months Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg Tadalafil 10 mg Tadalafil 20 mg Study C Endpoint [Change from baseline] 26% [4%] 38% [19%] 58% [32%] p=.040 p<.001 Study D Endpoint [Change from baseline] 28% [4%] 42% [24%] 51% [26%] p<.001 p<.001 Study E Endpoint [Change from baseline] 43% [15%] 70% [48%] 78% [50%] p<.001 p<.001 Study Fa Endpoint [Change from baseline] 27% [1%] 74% [40%] p<.001 Study G Endpoint [Change from baseline] 32% [5%] 57% [33%] 62% [29%] p<.001 p<.001 In addition, there were improvements in EF domain scores, success rates based upon SEP Questions 2 and 3, and patient-reported improvement in erections across patients with ED of all degrees of disease severity while taking tadalafil, compared to patients on placebo. Therefore, in all 7 primary efficacy and safety studies, tadalafil showed statistically significant improvement in patients’ ability to achieve an erection sufficient for vaginal penetration and to maintain the erection long enough for successful intercourse, as measured by the IIEF questionnaire and by SEP diaries. Efficacy Results in ED Patients with Diabetes Mellitus — Tadalafil was shown to be effective in treating ED in patients with diabetes mellitus. Patients with diabetes were included in all 7 primary efficacy studies in the general ED population (N=235) and in one study that specifically assessed tadalafil in ED patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (N=216). In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, parallel-arm design prospective trial, tadalafil demonstrated clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in erectile function, as measured by the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire and Questions 2 and 3 of the SEP diary (see Table 15). Table 15: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the Primary Efficacy Variables in a Study in ED Patients with Diabetes Placebo Tadalafil 10 mg Tadalafil 20 mg (N=71) (N=73) (N=72) p-value EF Domain Score Endpoint [Change from baseline] 12.2 [0.1] 19.3 [6.4] 18.7 [7.3] <.001 Insertion of Penis (SEP2) Endpoint [Change from baseline] 30% [-4%] 57% [22%] 54% [23%] <.001 Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Endpoint [Change from baseline] 20% [2%] 48% [28%] 42% [29%] <.001 Efficacy Results in ED Patients following Radical Prostatectomy — Tadalafil was shown to be effective in treating patients who developed ED following bilateral nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy. In 1 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, parallel-arm design prospective trial in this population (N=303), tadalafil demonstrated clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in erectile function, as measured by the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire and Questions 2 and 3 of the SEP diary (see Table 16). Table 16: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the Primary Efficacy Variables in a Study in Patients who Developed ED Following Bilateral Nerve-Sparing Radical Prostatectomy Placebo Tadalafil 20 mg (N=102) (N=201) p-value EF Domain Score Endpoint [Change from baseline] 13.3 [1.1] 17.7 [5.3] <.001 Insertion of Penis (SEP2) Endpoint [Change from baseline] 32% [2%] 54% [22%] <.001 Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Endpoint [Change from baseline] 19% [4%] 41% [23%] <.001 Results in Studies to Determine the Optimal Use of Tadalafil— Several studies were conducted with the objective of determining the optimal use of tadalafil in the treatment of ED. In one of these studies, the percentage of patients reporting successful erections within 30 minutes of dosing was determined. In this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial, 223 patients were randomized to placebo, tadalafil 10 mg, or 20 mg. Using a stopwatch, patients recorded the time following dosing at which a successful erection was obtained. A successful erection was defined as at least 1 erection in 4 attempts that led to successful intercourse. At or prior to 30 minutes, 35% (26/74), 38% (28/74), and 52% (39/75) of patients in the placebo, 10-mg, and 20-mg groups, respectively, reported successful erections as defined above. Two studies were conducted to assess the efficacy of tadalafil at a given timepoint after dosing, specifically at 24 hours and at 36 hours after dosing. In the first of these studies, 348 patients with ED were randomized to placebo or tadalafil tablets 20 mg. Patients were encouraged to make 4 total attempts at intercourse; 2 attempts were to occur at 24 hours after dosing and 2 completely separate attempts were to occur at 36 hours after dosing. The results demonstrated a difference between the placebo group and the tadalafil group at each of the pre-specified timepoints. At the 24-hour timepoint, (more specifically, 22 to 26 hours), 53/144 (37%) patients reported at least 1 successful intercourse in the placebo group versus 84/138 (61%) in the tadalafil 20-mg group. At the 36-hour timepoint (more specifically, 33 to 39 hours), 49/133 (37%) of patients reported at least 1 successful intercourse in the placebo group versus 88/137 (64%) in the tadalafil 20-mg group. In the second of these studies, a total of 483 patients were evenly randomized to 1 of 6 groups: 3 different dosing groups (placebo, tadalafil 10 mg, or 20 mg) that were instructed to attempt intercourse at 2 different times (24 and 36 hours post-dosing). Patients were encouraged to make 4 separate attempts at their assigned dose and assigned timepoint. In this study, the results demonstrated a statistically significant difference between the placebo group and the tadalafilgroups at each of the pre-specified timepoints. At the 24-hour timepoint, the mean, per patient percentage of attempts resulting in successful intercourse were 42, 56, and 67% for the placebo, tadalafil 10-mg, and 20-mg groups, respectively. At the 36-hour timepoint, the mean, per-patient percentage of attempts resulting in successful intercourse were 33, 56, and 62% for placebo, tadalafil 10-mg, and 20-mg groups, respectively. 14.2 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for ED The efficacy and safety of tadalafil for once daily use in the treatment of erectile dysfunction has been evaluated in 2 clinical trials of 12-weeks duration and 1 clinical trial of 24-weeks duration, involving a total of 853 patients. Tadalafil, when taken once daily, was shown to be effective in improving erectile function in men with erectile dysfunction (ED). Tadalafil was studied in the general ED population in 2 randomized, multicenter, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm design, primary efficacy and safety studies of 12-and 24-weeks duration, respectively. One of these studies was conducted in the United States and one was conducted in centers outside the US. An additional efficacy and safety study was performed in ED patients with diabetes mellitus. Tadalafil was taken once daily at doses ranging from 2.5 mg to 10 mg. Food and alcohol intake were not restricted. Timing of sexual activity was not restricted relative to when patients took tadalafil. Results in General ED Population — The primary US efficacy and safety trial included a total of 287 patients, with a mean age of 59 years (range 25 to 82 years). The population was 86% White, 6% Black, 6% Hispanic, and 2% of other ethnicities, and included patients with ED of various severities, etiologies (organic, psychogenic, mixed), and with multiple co-morbid conditions, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease. Most (greater than 96%) patients reported ED of at least 1-year duration. The primary efficacy and safety study conducted outside the US included 268 patients, with a mean age of 56 years (range 21 to 78 years). The population was 86% White, 3% Black, 0.4% Hispanic, and 10% of other ethnicities, and included patients with ED of various severities, etiologies (organic, psychogenic, mixed), and with multiple co-morbid conditions, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease. Ninety-three percent of patients reported ED of at least 1-year duration. In each of these trials, conducted without regard to the timing of dose and sexual intercourse, tadalafil demonstrated clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in erectile function, as measured by the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire and Questions 2 and 3 of the SEP diary (see Table 17). When taken as directed, tadalafil was effective at improving erectile function. In the 6 month double-blind study, the treatment effect of tadalafil did not diminish over time. Table 17: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the Primary Efficacy Variables in the Two Tadalafil for Once Daily Use Studies a Twenty-four-week study conducted in the US. b Twelve-week study conducted outside the US. c Statistically significantly different from placebo. Study Ha Study Ib Placebo Tadalafil 2.5 mg Tadalafil 5 mg Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg (N=94) (N=96) (N=97) p-value (N=54) (N=109) p-value EF Domain Score Endpoint 14.6 19.1 20.8 15 22.8 Change from baseline 1.2 6.1c 7.0c <.001 0.9 9.7c <.001 Insertion of Penis (SEP2) Endpoint 51% 65% 71% 52% 79% Change from baseline 5% 24%c 26%c <.001 11% 37%c <.001 Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Endpoint 31% 50% 57% 37% 67% Change from baseline 10% 31%c 35%c <.001 13% 46%c <.001 Efficacy Results in ED Patients with Diabetes Mellitus — Tadalafil for once daily use was shown to be effective in treating ED in patients with diabetes mellitus. Patients with diabetes were included in both studies in the general ED population (N=79). A third randomized, multicenter, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm design trial included only ED patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (N=298). In this third trial, tadalafil demonstrated clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in erectile function, as measured by the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire and Questions 2 and 3 of the SEP diary (see Table 18). Table 18: Mean Endpoint and Change from Baseline for the Primary Efficacy Variables in a Tadalafil for Once Daily Use Study in ED Patients with Diabetes a Statistically significantly different from placebo. Placebo Tadalafil 2.5 mg Tadalafil 5 mg (N=100) (N=100) (N=98) p-value EF Domain Score Endpoint 14.7 18.3 17.2 Change from baseline 1.3 4.8a 4.5a <.001 Insertion of Penis (SEP2) Endpoint 43% 62% 61% Change from baseline 5% 21%a 29%a <.001 Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Endpoint 28% 46% 41% Change from baseline 8% 26%a 25%a <.001 14.3 Tadalafil tablets 5 mg for Once Daily Use for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) The efficacy and safety of tadalafil for once daily use for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH was evaluated in 3 randomized, multinational, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-design, efficacy and safety studies of 12 weeks duration. Two of these studies were in men with BPH and one study was specific to men with both ED and BPH [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. The first study (Study J) randomized 1058 patients to receive either tadalafil 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg or 20 mg for once daily use or placebo. The second study (Study K) randomized 325 patients to receive either tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use or placebo. The full study population was 87% White, 2% Black, 11% other races; 15% was of Hispanic ethnicity. Patients with multiple co-morbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease were included. The primary efficacy endpoint in the two studies that evaluated the effect of tadalafil for the signs and symptoms of BPH was the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), a four week recall questionnaire that was administered at the beginning and end of a placebo run-in period and subsequently at follow-up visits after randomization. The IPSS assesses the severity of irritative (frequency, urgency, nocturia) and obstructive symptoms (incomplete emptying, stopping and starting, weak stream, and pushing or straining), with scores ranging from 0 to 35; higher numeric scores representing greater severity. Maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax), an objective measure of urine flow, was assessed as a secondary efficacy endpoint in Study J and as a safety endpoint in Study K. The results for BPH patients with moderate to severe symptoms and a mean age of 63.2 years (range 44 to 87) who received either tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use or placebo (N=748) in Studies J and K are shown in Table 19 and Figures 5 and 6, respectively. In each of these 2 trials, tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use resulted in statistically significant improvement in the total IPSS compared to placebo. Mean total IPSS showed a decrease starting at the first scheduled observation (4 weeks) in Study K and remained decreased through 12 weeks. Table 19: Mean IPSS Changes in BPH Patients in Two Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Studies Study J Study K Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg (N=205) (N=205) p-value (N=164) (N=160) p-value Total Symptom Score (IPSS) Baseline 17.1 17.3 16.6 17.1 Change from Baseline to Week 12 -2.2 -4.8 <.001 -3.6 -5.6 0.004 [figure5] Figure 5: Mean IPSS Changes in BPH Patients by Visit in Study J [figure6] Figure 6: Mean IPSS Changes in BPH Patients by Visit in Study K In Study J, the effect of tadalafil 5 mg once daily on maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax) was evaluated as a secondary efficacy endpoint. Mean Qmax increased from baseline in both the treatment and placebo groups (tadalafil 5 mg: 1.6 mL/sec, placebo: 1.2 mL/sec); however, these changes were not significantly different between groups. In Study K, the effect of tadalafil 5 mg once daily on Qmax was evaluated as a safety endpoint. Mean Qmax increased from baseline in both the treatment and placebo groups (tadalafil 5 mg: 1.6 mL/sec, placebo: 1.1 mL/sec); however, these changes were not significantly different between groups. Efficacy Results in Patients with BPH initiating tadalafil and Finasteride - Tadalafil for once daily use initiated together with finasteride was shown to be effective in treating the signs and symptoms of BPH in men with an enlarged prostate (greater than 30 cc) for up to 26 weeks. This additional double-blinded, parallel-design study of 26 weeks duration randomized 696 men to initiate either tadalafil 5 mg with finasteride 5 mg or placebo with finasteride 5 mg. The study population had a mean age of 64 years (range 46 to 86). Patients with multiple co-morbid conditions such as erectile dysfunction, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease were included. Tadalafil with finasteride demonstrated statistically significant improvement in the signs and symptoms of BPH compared to placebo with finasteride, as measured by the total IPSS at 12 weeks, the primary study endpoint (see Table 20). Key secondary endpoints demonstrated improvement in total IPSS starting at the first scheduled observation at week 4 (tadalafil-4.0, placebo -2.3: p less than .001) and the score remained decreased through 26 weeks (tadalafil-5.5, placebo -4.5; p=.022). However, the magnitude of the treatment difference between placebo/finasteride and tadalafil/finasteride decreased from 1.7 points at Week 4 to 1.0 point at Week 26, as shown in Table 20 and in Figure 7. The incremental benefit of tadalafil beyond 26 weeks is unknown. Table 20: Mean Total IPSS Changes in BPH Patients in a Tadalafil for Once Daily Use Study Together with Finasteride a Overall ITT population. b Mixed model for repeated measurements. c Unadjusted mean. Placebo and finasteride 5 mg Tadalafil 5mg and finasteride 5 mg Treatment difference n (N=350)a n (N=345)a p-valueb Total Symptom Score (IPSS) Baselinec 349 17.4 344 17.1 Change from Baseline to Week 4b 340 -2.3 330 -4 -1.7 <.001 Change from Baseline to Week 12b 318 -3.8 317 -5.2 -1.4 0.001 Change from Baseline to Week 26b 295 -4.5 308 -5.5 -1 0.022 [figure7] Figure 7: Mean Total IPSS Changes By Visit in BPH Patients Taking Tadalafil for Once Daily Use Together With Finasteride In the 404 patients who had both ED and BPH at baseline, changes in erectile function were assessed as key secondary endpoints using the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire. Tadalafil with finasteride (N=203) was compared to placebo with finasteride (N=201). A statistically significant improvement from baseline (tadalafil/finasteride 13.7, placebo/finasteride 15.1) was observed at week 4 (tadalafil/finasteride 3.7, placebo/finasteride -1.1; p less than .001), week 12 (tadalafil/finasteride 4.7, placebo/finasteride 0.6; p less than .001), and week 26 (tadalafil/finasteride 4.7, placebo/finasteride 0.0; p less than .001). 14.4 Tadalafil tablets 5 mg for Once Daily Use for ED and BPH The efficacy and safety of tadalafil for once daily use for the treatment of ED, and the signs and symptoms of BPH, in patients with both conditions was evaluated in one placebo-controlled, multinational, double-blind, parallel-arm study which randomized 606 patients to receive either tadalafil 2.5 mg, 5 mg, for once daily use or placebo. ED severity ranged from mild to severe and BPH severity ranged from moderate to severe. The full study population had a mean age of 63 years (range 45 to 83) and was 93% White, 4% Black, 3% other races; 16% were of Hispanic ethnicity. Patients with multiple co-morbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and other cardiovascular disease were included. In this study, the co-primary endpoints were total IPSS and the Erectile Function (EF) domain score of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). One of the key secondary endpoints in this study was Question 3 of the Sexual Encounter Profile diary (SEP3). Timing of sexual activity was not restricted relative to when patients took tadalafil. The efficacy results for patients with both ED and BPH, who received either tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use or placebo (N=408) are shown in Tables 21 and 22 and Figure 8. Tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use resulted in statistically significant improvements in the total IPSS and in the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire. Tadalafil 5 mg for once daily use also resulted in statistically significant improvement in SEP3. Tadalafil 2.5 mg did not result in statistically significant improvement in the total IPSS. Table 21: Mean IPSS and IIEF EF Domain Changes in the Tadalafil 5 mg for Once Daily Use Study in Patients with ED and BPH Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg p-value Total Symptom Score (IPSS) (N=193) (N=206) Baseline 18.2 18.5 Change from Baseline to Week 12 -3.8 -6.1 <.001 EF Domain Score (IIEF EF) (N=188) (N=202) Baseline 15.6 16.5 Endpoint 17.6 22.9 Change from Baseline to Week 12 1.9 6.5 <.001 Table 22: Mean SEP Question 3 Changes in the Tadalafil 5 mg for Once Daily Use Study in Patients with ED and BPH Placebo Tadalafil 5 mg (N=187) (N=199) p-value Maintenance of Erection (SEP3) Baseline 36% 43% Endpoint 48% 72% Change from Baseline to Week 12 12% 32% <.001 Tadalafil for once daily use resulted in improvement in the IPSS total score at the first scheduled observation (week 2) and throughout the 12 weeks of treatment (see Figure 8). [figure8] Figure 8: Mean IPSS Changes in ED/BPH Patients by Visit in Study L In this study, the effect of tadalafil 5 mg once daily on Qmax was evaluated as a safety endpoint. Mean Qmax increased from baseline in both the treatment and placebo groups (tadalafil 5 mg: 1.6 mL/sec, placebo: 1.2 mL/sec); however, these changes were not significantly different between groups.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].Keep out of reach of children.

SPL TEXT:
Tadalafil Tadalafil SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE FD&C YELLOW NO. 5 FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW LOW-SUBSTITUTED HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (11% HYDROXYPROPYL; 100000 MW) HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN TADALAFIL TADALAFIL CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE ALUMINUM OXIDE (light yellow to yellow) T;20