DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION NUCYNTA (tapentadol) tablets are a mu-opioid receptor agonist, available in immediate-release film-coated tablets for oral administration, containing 58.24, 87.36 and 116.48 mg of tapentadol hydrochloride in each tablet strength, equivalent to 50, 75, and 100 mg of tapentadol free-base, respectively. The chemical name is 3-[(1 R ,2 R )-3-(dimethylamino)-1-ethyl-2-methylpropyl]phenol monohydrochloride, and it has the following chemical structure: The molecular weight of tapentadol HCl is 257.80, and the molecular formula is C 14 H 23 NO∙HCl. The n-octanol:water partition coefficient log P value is 2.87. The pKa values are 9.34 and 10.45. The inactive ingredients in NUCYNTA tablets include: croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone. The film coatings for all tablet strengths contain polyvinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol, talc, and the colorant FD&C Yellow #6 aluminum lake; the film coatings for the 50 mg and 75 mg tablets also contain the additional colorant D&C Yellow #10 aluminum lake. NUCYNTA chemical structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Tapentadol is a centrally-acting synthetic analgesic. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. Although the clinical relevance is unclear, preclinical studies have shown that tapentadol is a mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist and a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI). Analgesia in animal models is derived from both of these properties. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on the Central Nervous System Tapentadol produces respiratory depression by direct action on the brainstem respiratory centers. The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation. Tapentadol causes miosis, even in total darkness. Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic (e.g., pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origin may produce similar findings). Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations. Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Tapentadol causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased to the point of spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of sphincter of Oddi, and transient elevations in serum amylase. Effects on the Cardiovascular System There was no effect of therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses of tapentadol on the QT interval. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and positive-controlled crossover study, healthy subjects were administered five consecutive doses of NUCYNTA 100 mg every 6 hours, NUCYNTA 150 mg every 6 hours, placebo and a single oral dose of moxifloxacin. Similarly, NUCYNTA had no relevant effect on other ECG parameters (heart rate, PR interval, QRS duration, T-wave or U-wave morphology). Tapentadol produces peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Manifestations of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes, sweating, and/or orthostatic hypotension. Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in humans [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . They also stimulate prolactin, growth hormone (GH) secretion, and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon. Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido, impotence, erectile dysfunction, amenorrhea, or infertility. The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Overall, the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive. Concentration-Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients, especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids. The minimum effective analgesic concentration of tapentadol for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain, the development of a new pain syndrome, and/or the development of analgesic tolerance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Concentration-Adverse Experience Relationships There is a relationship between increasing tapentadol plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose-related adverse reactions such as nausea, vomiting, CNS effects, and respiratory depression. In opioid-tolerant patients, the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid-related adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 )] . 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The mean absolute bioavailability after single-dose administration (fasting) of NUCYNTA is approximately 32% due to extensive first-pass metabolism. Maximum serum concentrations of tapentadol are typically observed at around 1.25 hours after dosing. Dose-proportional increases in the C max and AUC values of tapentadol have been observed over the 50 to 150 mg dose range. A multiple (every 6 hour) dose study with doses ranging from 75 to 175 mg tapentadol showed a mean accumulation factor of 1.6 for the parent drug and 1.8 for the major metabolite tapentadol-O-glucuronide, which are primarily determined by the dosing interval and apparent half-life of tapentadol and its metabolite. Food Effect The AUC and C max increased by 25% and 16%, respectively, when NUCYNTA was administered after a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast. NUCYNTA may be given with or without food. Distribution Tapentadol is widely distributed throughout the body. Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution (Vz) for tapentadol is 540 +/- 98 L. The plasma protein binding is low and amounts to approximately 20%. Elimination Metabolism In humans, about 97% of the parent compound is metabolized. Tapentadol is mainly metabolized via Phase 2 pathways, and only a small amount is metabolized by Phase 1 oxidative pathways. The major pathway of tapentadol metabolism is conjugation with glucuronic acid to produce glucuronides. After oral administration approximately 70% (55% O-glucuronide and 15% sulfate of tapentadol) of the dose is excreted in urine in the conjugated form. A total of 3% of drug was excreted in urine as unchanged drug. Tapentadol is additionally metabolized to N-desmethyl tapentadol (13%) by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 and to hydroxy tapentadol (2%) by CYP2D6, which are further metabolized by conjugation. Therefore, drug metabolism mediated by cytochrome P450 system is of less importance than phase 2 conjugation. None of the metabolites contribute to the analgesic activity. Excretion Tapentadol and its metabolites are excreted almost exclusively (99%) via the kidneys. The terminal half-life is on average 4 hours after oral administration. The total clearance is 1530 +/- 177 mL/min. Specific Populations Age: Geriatric Population The mean exposure (AUC) to tapentadol was similar in elderly subjects compared to young adults, with a 16% lower mean C max observed in the elderly subject group compared to young adult subjects. Hepatic Impairment Administration of NUCYNTA resulted in higher exposures and serum levels to tapentadol in subjects with impaired hepatic function compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. The ratio of tapentadol pharmacokinetic parameters for the mild hepatic impairment group (Child-Pugh Score 5 to 6) and moderate hepatic impairment group (Child-Pugh Score 7 to 9) in comparison to the normal hepatic function group were 1.7 and 4.2, respectively, for AUC; 1.4 and 2.5, respectively, for C max ; and 1.2 and 1.4, respectively, for t ½ . The rate of formation of tapentadol-O-glucuronide was lower in subjects with increased liver impairment. Renal Impairment AUC and C max of tapentadol were comparable in subjects with varying degrees of renal function (from normal to severely impaired). In contrast, increasing exposure (AUC) to tapentadol-O-glucuronide was observed with increasing degree of renal impairment. In subjects with mild (CL CR = 50 to <80 mL/min), moderate (CL CR = 30 to <50 mL/min), and severe (CL CR = <30 mL/min) renal impairment, the AUC of tapentadol-O-glucuronide was 1.5 , 2.5-, and 5.5-fold higher compared with normal renal function, respectively. Drug Interaction Studies Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions Tapentadol is mainly metabolized by Phase 2 glucuronidation, a high capacity/low affinity system; therefore, clinically relevant interactions caused by Phase 2 metabolism are unlikely to occur. Naproxen and probenecid increased the AUC of tapentadol by 17% and 57%, respectively. These changes are not considered clinically relevant and no change in dose is required. No changes in the pharmacokinetic parameters of tapentadol were observed when acetaminophen and acetylsalicylic acid were given concomitantly. In vitro studies did not reveal any potential of tapentadol to either inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes. Furthermore, a minor amount of NUCYNTA is metabolized via the oxidative pathway. Thus, clinically relevant interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 system are unlikely to occur. The pharmacokinetics of tapentadol were not affected when gastric pH or gastrointestinal motility were increased by omeprazole and metoclopramide, respectively. Plasma protein binding of tapentadol is low (approximately 20%). Therefore, the likelihood of pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions by displacement from the protein binding site is low.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Tapentadol is a centrally-acting synthetic analgesic. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. Although the clinical relevance is unclear, preclinical studies have shown that tapentadol is a mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist and a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI). Analgesia in animal models is derived from both of these properties.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NUCYNTA (tapentadol) tablets are indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate in adults. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve NUCYNTA tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products: Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia NUCYNTA tablets are an opioid analgesic indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve NUCYNTA tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NUCYNTA tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including suspected paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Hypersensitivity to tapentadol (e.g. anaphylaxis, angioedema) or to any other ingredients of the product [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to tapentadol ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days. ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse NUCYNTA tablets exposes patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient's risk prior to prescribing NUCYNTA tablets, and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors and conditions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of NUCYNTA tablets. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation of NUCYNTA tablets or following a dose increase [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Accidental Ingestion Accidental ingestion of even one dose of NUCYNTA tablets, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of tapentadol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of NUCYNTA tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Risks From Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Reserve concomitant prescribing of NUCYNTA tablets and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. WARNING: ADDICTION, ABUSE, AND MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. NUCYNTA tablets expose users to risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess patient's risk before prescribing and monitor regularly for these behaviors and conditions. ( 5.1 ) Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur. Monitor closely, especially upon initiation or following a dose increase. ( 5.2 ) Accidental ingestion of NUCYNTA tablets, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose of tapentadol. ( 5.2 ) Prolonged use of NUCYNTA tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, which may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. If prolonged opioid use is required in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. ( 5.3 ) Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate; limit dosages and durations to the minimum required; and follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation ( 5.4 ), ( 7 ).

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) Initiate treatment with NUCYNTA tablets at a dose of 50 mg, 75 mg, or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours depending upon pain intensity. On the first day of dosing, the second dose may be administered as soon as one hour after the first dose, if adequate pain relief is not attained with the first dose. Subsequent dosing is 50 mg, 75 mg, or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours and should be adjusted to maintain adequate analgesia with acceptable tolerability. Daily doses greater than 700 mg on the first day of therapy and 600 mg on subsequent days have not been studied and are, therefore, not recommended. ( 2.2 ) Moderate Hepatic Impairment : Initiate treatment with 50 mg no more than once every 8 hours (maximum of three doses in 24 hours). Monitor closely for respiratory and central nervous system depression. ( 2.3 ) Do not stop NUCYNTA tablets abruptly in a physically dependent patient. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with NUCYNTA and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] 2.2 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with NUCYNTA Tablets Initiate treatment with NUCYNTA tablets in a dosing range of 50 mg to 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. On the first day of dosing, the second dose may be administered as soon as one hour after the first dose, if adequate pain relief is not attained with the first dose. Subsequent dosing is 50 mg, 75 mg, or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours and should be adjusted to maintain adequate analgesia with acceptable tolerability. Daily doses greater than 700 mg on the first day of therapy and 600 mg on subsequent days have not been studied and are not recommended. NUCYNTA tablets may be given with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Conversion from NUCYNTA Tablets to NUCYNTA ER Patients can be converted from NUCYNTA tablets to NUCYNTA ER using the equivalent total daily dose of NUCYNTA tablets and dividing it into two equal doses of NUCYNTA ER separated by approximately 12-hour intervals. As an example, a patient receiving 50 mg of NUCYNTA tablets four times per day (200 mg/day) may be converted to 100 mg NUCYNTA ER twice a day. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment The safety and efficacy of NUCYNTA tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Score 10-15) and use in this population is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . Initiate treatment of patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Score 7 to 9) with 50 mg no more frequently than once every 8 hours (maximum of three doses in 24 hours). Further treatment should reflect maintenance of analgesia with acceptable tolerability, to be achieved by either shortening or lengthening the dosing interval. Monitor closely for respiratory and central nervous system depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Score 5 to 6) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Continually reevaluate patients receiving NUCYNTA tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the NUCYNTA tablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Discontinuation of NUCYNTA Tablets When a patient who has been taking NUCYNTA tablets regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with NUCYNTA tablets, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patient develops these signs or symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either by increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Do not abruptly discontinue NUCYNTA tablets in a physically-dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed, or described in greater detail, in other sections: Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Interactions with Benzodiazepine or Other CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Serotonin Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Severe Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥10%) were nausea, dizziness, vomiting and somnolence. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Depomed, Inc. at 1-866-458-6389 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Based on data from nine Phase 2/3 studies that administered multiple doses (seven placebo and/or active-controlled, one noncontrolled and one Phase 3 active-controlled safety study) the most common adverse reactions (reported by ≥10% in any NUCYNTA tablets dose group) were: nausea, dizziness, vomiting and somnolence. The most common reasons for discontinuation due to adverse reactions in the studies described above (reported by ≥1% in any NUCYNTA tablets dose group) were dizziness (2.6% vs. 0.5%), nausea (2.3% vs. 0.6%), vomiting (1.4% vs. 0.2%), somnolence (1.3% vs. 0.2%) and headache (0.9% vs. 0.2%) for NUCYNTA- and placebo-treated patients, respectively. Seventy-six percent of NUCYNTA-treated patients from the nine studies experienced adverse events. NUCYNTA tablets were studied in multiple-dose, active- or placebo-controlled studies, or noncontrolled studies (n = 2178), in single-dose studies (n = 870), in open-label study extension (n = 483) and in Phase 1 studies (n = 597). Of these, 2034 patients were treated with doses of 50 mg to 100 mg of NUCYNTA tablets dosed every 4 to 6 hours. The data described below reflect exposure to NUCYNTA tablets in 3161 patients, including 449 exposed for 45 days. NUCYNTA tablets were studied primarily in placebo- and active-controlled studies (n = 2266, and n = 2944, respectively). The population was 18 to 85 years old (mean age 46 years), 68% were female, 75% white and 67% were postoperative. Most patients received NUCYNTA tablets doses of 50 mg, 75 mg, or 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours. Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥1% of NUCYNTA-Treated Patients In Seven Phase 2/3 Placebo- and/or Oxycodone-Controlled, One Non-controlled, and One Phase 3 Oxycodone-Controlled Safety, Multiple-Dose Clinical Studies System/Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term NUCYNTA 21 mg – 120 mg (n=2178) % Placebo (n=619) % Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 30 13 Vomiting 18 4 Constipation 8 3 Dry mouth 4 <1 Dyspepsia 2 <1 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 3 <1 Feeling hot 1 <1 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 <1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 <1 Urinary tract infection 1 <1 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 2 0 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 24 8 Somnolence 15 3 Tremor 1 <1 Lethargy 1 <1 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 2 <1 Confusional state 1 0 Abnormal dreams 1 <1 Anxiety 1 <1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Pruritus 5 1 Hyperhidrosis 3 <1 Pruritus generalized 3 <1 Rash 1 <1 Vascular disorders Hot flush 1 <1 The following adverse drug reactions occurred in less than 1% of NUCYNTA-treated patients in the pooled safety data from nine Phase 2/3 clinical studies: Cardiac disorders: heart rate increased, heart rate decreased Eye disorders: visual disturbance Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal discomfort, impaired gastric emptying General disorders and administration site conditions: irritability, edema, drug withdrawal syndrome, feeling drunk Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity Investigations: gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: involuntary muscle contractions, sensation of heaviness Nervous system disorders: hypoesthesia, paresthesia, disturbance in attention, sedation, dysarthria, depressed level of consciousness, memory impairment, ataxia, presyncope, syncope, coordination abnormal, seizure Psychiatric disorders: euphoric mood, disorientation, restlessness, agitation, nervousness, thinking abnormal Renal and urinary disorders: urinary hesitation, pollakiuria Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: oxygen saturation decreased, cough, dyspnea, respiratory depression Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: urticaria Vascular disorders: blood pressure decreased In the pooled safety data, the overall incidence of adverse reactions increased with increased dose of NUCYNTA tablets, as did the percentage of patients with adverse reactions of nausea, dizziness, vomiting, somnolence, and pruritus. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tapentadol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: diarrhea Nervous system disorders: headache Psychiatric disorders: hallucination, suicidal ideation, panic attack Cardiac disorders: palpitations Serotonin syndrome: Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs. Adrenal insufficiency: Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Anaphylaxis: Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in NUCYNTA tablets. Androgen deficiency: Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] .

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with NUCYNTA tablets. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with NUCYNTA Tablets Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions 5.6 ]. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue NUCYNTA tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Intervention: Do not use NUCYNTA tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of NUCYNTA tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Tapentadol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of NUCYNTA tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when NUCYNTA tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Alcohol, Other Opioids, and Drugs of Abuse Clinical Impact: Due to its mu-opioid agonist activity, NUCYNTA tablets may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression, respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, coma or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Intervention: Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or non-prescription products containing alcohol, other opioids, or drugs of abuse while on NUCYNTA tablets therapy. Examples: Alcohol, other opioids, illicit drugs Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with NUCYNTA tablets because they reduce analgesic effect of NUCYNTA tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ).

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy may cause neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Available data with NUCYNTA tablets are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, embryofetal mortality and structural malformations were observed with subcutaneous administration of tapentadol during organogenesis to rabbits and delays in skeletal maturation were observed in rats at exposures equivalent to and less than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. When administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis and through lactation, increased pup mortality was noted following oral tapentadol exposures to doses equivalent to the MRHD [see Data ] . Based on animal data, advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. Adverse outcomes in pregnancy can occur regardless of the health of the mother or the use of medications. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2-4% and 15-20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Labor or Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects in neonates. An opioid antagonist, such as naloxone, must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate. NUCYNTA tablets are not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor, when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioid analgesics, including NUCYNTA tablets, can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. However, this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation, which tends to shorten labor. Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. Data Animal Data Tapentadol HCl was evaluated for teratogenic effects in pregnant rats and rabbits following subcutaneous exposure during organogenesis. When tapentadol was administered twice daily by the subcutaneous route in rats at dose levels of 10, 20, or 40 mg/kg/day [producing up to 1 times the plasma exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 700 mg/day based on an area under the time-curve (AUC) comparison], no teratogenic effects were observed. Evidence of embryofetal toxicity included transient delays in skeletal maturation (i.e. reduced ossification) at the 40 mg/kg/day dose which was associated with significant maternal toxicity. Administration of tapentadol HCl in rabbits at doses of 4, 10, or 24 mg/kg/day by subcutaneous injection [producing 0.2, 0.6, and 1.85 times the plasma exposure at the MRHD based on an AUC comparison] revealed embryofetal toxicity at doses ≥10 mg/kg/day. Findings included reduced fetal viability, skeletal delays and other variations. In addition, there were multiple malformations including gastroschisis/thoracogastroschisis, amelia/phocomelia, and cleft palate at doses ≥10 mg/kg/day and above, and ablepharia, encephalopathy, and spina bifida at the high dose of 24 mg/kg/day. Embryofetal toxicity, including malformations, may be secondary to the significant maternal toxicity observed in the study. In a study of pre- and postnatal development in rats, oral administration of tapentadol at doses of 20, 50, 150, or 300 mg/kg/day to pregnant and lactating rats during the late gestation and early postnatal period [resulting in up to 1.7 times the plasma exposure at the MRHD on an AUC basis] did not influence physical or reflex development, the outcome of neurobehavioral tests or reproductive parameters. Treatment-related developmental delay was observed, including incomplete ossification, and significant reductions in pup body weights and body weight gains at doses associated with maternal toxicity (150 mg/kg/day and above). At maternal tapentadol doses ≥150 mg/kg/day, a dose-related increase in pup mortality was observed through postnatal Day 4.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of NUCYNTA tablets in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in Phase 2/3 double-blind, multiple-dose clinical studies of NUCYNTA tablets, 19% were 65 and over, while 5% were 75 and over. No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients. The rate of constipation was higher in subjects greater than or equal to 65 years than those less than 65 years (12% vs. 7%). Elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) may have increased sensitivity to tapentadol. In general, use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids, and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid-tolerant or when opioids were co-administered with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dosage of NUCYNTA tablets slowly in geriatric patients and monitor closely for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Tapentadol is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdosage with NUCYNTA tablets can be manifested by respiratory depression, somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, constricted pupils, and, in some cases, pulmonary edema, bradycardia, hypotension, partial or complete airway obstruction, atypical snoring, and death. Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to severe hypoxia in overdose situations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose, priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation if needed. Employ other supportive measures (including oxygen and vasopressors) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated. Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life support techniques. The opioid antagonists, naloxone or nalmefene, are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose. For clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to tapentadol overdose, administer an opioid antagonist. Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to tapentadol overdose. Because the duration of opioid reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of tapentadol in NUCYNTA tablets, carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably reestablished. If the response to an opioid antagonist is suboptimal or only brief in nature, administer additional antagonist as directed in the product's prescribing information. In an individual physically dependent on opioids, administration of the recommended usual dosage of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered. If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient, administration of the antagonist should be begun with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of NUCYNTA tablets in the treatment of acute pain has been established in two randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled studies of moderate to severe pain from first metatarsal bunionectomy and end-stage degenerative joint disease. 14.1 Orthopedic Surgery – Bunionectomy A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, active- and placebo-controlled, multiple-dose study demonstrated the efficacy of 50 mg, 75 mg, and 100 mg NUCYNTA tablets given every 4 to 6 hours for 72 hours in patients aged 18 to 80 years experiencing moderate to severe pain following unilateral, first metatarsal bunionectomy surgery. Patients who qualified for the study with a baseline pain score of ≥4 on an 11-point rating scale ranging from 0 to 10 were randomized to 1 of 5 treatments. Patients were allowed to take a second dose of study medication as soon as 1 hour after the first dose on study Day 1, with subsequent dosing every 4 to 6 hours. If rescue analgesics were required, the patients were discontinued for lack of efficacy. Efficacy was evaluated by comparing the sum of pain intensity difference over the first 48 hours (SPID48) versus placebo. NUCYNTA tablets at each dose provided a greater reduction in pain compared to placebo based on SPID48 values. For various degrees of improvement from baseline to the 48-hour endpoint, Figure 1 shows the fraction of patients achieving that level of improvement. The figures are cumulative, such that every patient that achieves a 50% reduction in pain from baseline is included in every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the 48-hour observation period in the study were assigned 0% improvement. Figure 1: Percentage of Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by Pain Severity at 48 Hours Compared to Baseline- Post Operative Bunionectomy The proportions of patients who showed reduction in pain intensity at 48 hours of 30% or greater, or 50% or greater were significantly higher in patients treated with NUCYNTA tablets at each dose versus placebo. Figure 1 14.2 End-Stage Degenerative Joint Disease A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, active- and placebo-controlled, multiple-dose study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 50 mg and 75 mg NUCYNTA tablets given every 4 to 6 hours during waking hours for 10 days in patients aged 18 to 80 years, experiencing moderate to severe pain from end stage degenerative joint disease of the hip or knee, defined as a 3-day mean pain score of ≥5 on an 11-point pain intensity scale, ranging from 0 to 10. Pain scores were assessed twice daily and assessed the pain the patient had experienced over the previous 12 hours. Patients were allowed to continue non-opioid analgesic therapy for which they had been on a stable regimen before screening throughout the study. Eighty-three percent (83%) of patients in the tapentadol treatment groups and the placebo group took such analgesia during the study. The 75 mg treatment group was dosed at 50 mg for the first day of the study, followed by 75 mg for the remaining nine days. Patients requiring rescue analgesics other than study medication were discontinued for lack of efficacy. Efficacy was evaluated by comparing the sum of pain intensity difference (SPID) versus placebo over the first five days of treatment. NUCYNTA tablets 50 mg and 75 mg provided improvement in pain compared with placebo based on the 5-Day SPID. For various degrees of improvement from baseline to the Day 5 endpoint, Figure 2 shows the fraction of patients achieving that level of improvement. The figures are cumulative, such that every patient that achieves a 50% reduction in pain from baseline is included in every level of improvement below 50%. Patients who did not complete the 5-day observation period in the study were assigned 0% improvement. Figure 2: Percentage of Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by Average Pain Severity for the Previous 12 hours, Measured on Study Day 5 Compared to Baseline -- End Stage Degenerative Joint Disease The proportions of patients who showed reduction in pain intensity at 5 days of 30% or greater, or 50% or greater were significantly higher in patients treated with NUCYNTA tablets at each dose versus placebo. Figure 2

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage and Handling Store up to 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Keep NUCYNTA tablets in a secure place out of reach of children. NUCYNTA tablets that are no longer needed should be destroyed by flushing down the toilet.

SPL TEXT:
NUCYNTA tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE lactose monohydrate croscarmellose sodium POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED magnesium stearate POLYVINYL ALCOHOL, UNSPECIFIED titanium dioxide POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED talc aluminum oxide round and biconvex O;M;50 NUCYNTA tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE lactose monohydrate croscarmellose sodium POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED magnesium stearate POLYVINYL ALCOHOL, UNSPECIFIED titanium dioxide POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED talc aluminum oxide yellow orange round and biconvex O;M;75 NUCYNTA tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol hydrochloride tapentadol MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE lactose monohydrate croscarmellose sodium POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED magnesium stearate POLYVINYL ALCOHOL, UNSPECIFIED titanium dioxide POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED talc aluminum oxide round and biconvex O;M;100