DRUG NAME: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride
GENERIC NAME: DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE
MANUFACTURER: Pfizer Laboratories Div Pfizer Inc
ROUTE: INTRAVENOUS

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Doxorubicin hydrochloride is an anthracycline topoisomerase inhibitor isolated from cultures of Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. The chemical name of doxorubicin hydrochloride is 5,12-Naphthacenedione, 10-[(3-amino-2,3,6-trideoxy-α-L- lyx o-hexopyranosyl)oxy]-7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,8,11-trihydroxy-8-(hydroxylacetyl)-1-methoxy-, hydrochloride (8S- ci s)-. The chemical structure of doxorubicin hydrochloride is: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection, for intravenous use is a clear red, sterile, isotonic aqueous solution provided in vials containing 10 mg/5 mL doxorubicin hydrochloride (equivalent to 9.37 mg of doxorubicin free base), 20 mg/10 mL doxorubicin hydrochloride (equivalent to 18.74 mg of doxorubicin free base), 50 mg/25 mL doxorubicin hydrochloride (equivalent to 46.86 mg of doxorubicin free base), 150 mg/75 mL doxorubicin hydrochloride (140.58 mg of doxorubicin free base), or 200 mg/100 mL doxorubicin hydrochloride (equivalent to 187.4 mg of doxorubicin free base). The drug product has demonstrated inherent antimicrobial activity suitable for a multiple dose presentation. Each milliliter of solution contains 2 mg of doxorubicin hydrochloride and 9 mg of sodium chloride. The pH of the solution is adjusted to 3.0 with hydrochloric acid, USP. Chemical Structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The cytotoxic effect of doxorubicin hydrochloride on malignant cells and its toxic effects on various organs are thought to be related to nucleotide base intercalation and cell membrane lipid binding activities of doxorubicin. Intercalation inhibits nucleotide replication and action of DNA and RNA polymerases. The interaction of doxorubicin with topoisomerase II to form DNA-cleavable complexes appears to be an important mechanism of doxorubicin hydrochloride cytocidal activity. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies conducted in patients with various types of tumors have shown that doxorubicin follows multiphasic disposition after intravenous injection. In four patients, doxorubicin demonstrated dose-independent pharmacokinetics across a dose range of 30 mg/m 2 to 70 mg/m 2 . Distribution The distribution half-life is approximately 5 minutes. Steady-state distribution volume ranges from 809 L/m 2 to 1214 L/m 2 . Binding of doxorubicin and its major metabolite, doxorubicinol, to plasma proteins is 75% and is independent of plasma concentration of doxorubicin up to 1.1 µg/mL. Doxorubicin does not cross the blood brain barrier. Elimination Plasma clearance is ranges from 324 mL/min/m 2 to 809 mL/min/m 2 . The terminal half-life is 20 hours to 48 hours. Metabolism Doxorubicin is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Enzymatic reduction at the 7 position and cleavage of the daunosamine sugar yields aglycones which are accompanied by free radical formation, the local production of which may contribute to the cardiotoxic activity of doxorubicin hydrochloride. Disposition of doxorubicinol in patients is formation rate limited, with the terminal half-life of doxorubicinol being similar to doxorubicin. The relative exposure of doxorubicinol, i.e., the ratio between the AUC of doxorubicinol and the AUC of doxorubicin is approximately 0.5. Excretion Plasma clearance is predominately by metabolism and biliary excretion. Approximately 40% of the dose appears in the bile in 5 days, while only 5% to 12% of the drug and its metabolites appear in the urine during the same time period. In urine, <3% of the dose was recovered as doxorubicinol over 7 days. Specific Populations Weight Systemic clearance of doxorubicin is significantly reduced in obese women with ideal body weight greater than 130%. There was a significant reduction in clearance without any change in volume of distribution in obese patients when compared with normal patients with less than 115% ideal body weight. Pediatric Patients Following administration of doses ranging from 10 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 of doxorubicin hydrochloride to 60 patients ranging from 2 months to 20 years, doxorubicin clearance averaged 1443 ± 114 mL/min/m 2 . Further analysis demonstrated that clearance in 52 patients ranging from 2 to 20 years (1540 mL/min/m 2 ) was increased compared with adults. However, clearance in infants younger than 2 years of age (813 mL/min/m 2 ) was decreased compared with older patients (ranging from 2 to 20 years) and approached the range of clearance values determined in adults [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Sex A published clinical study involving 6 men and 21 women with no prior anthracycline therapy reported a significantly higher median doxorubicin clearance in men compared to women (1088 mL/min/m 2 versus 433 mL/min/m 2 ). However, the terminal half-life of doxorubicin was longer in men compared to women (54 versus 35 hours). Patients with Hepatic Impairment The clearance of doxorubicin and doxorubicinol was reduced in patients with elevated serum total bilirubin concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] .

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The cytotoxic effect of doxorubicin hydrochloride on malignant cells and its toxic effects on various organs are thought to be related to nucleotide base intercalation and cell membrane lipid binding activities of doxorubicin. Intercalation inhibits nucleotide replication and action of DNA and RNA polymerases. The interaction of doxorubicin with topoisomerase II to form DNA-cleavable complexes appears to be an important mechanism of doxorubicin hydrochloride cytocidal activity.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is an anthracycline topoisomerase inhibitor indicated: • as a component of multi-agent adjuvant chemotherapy for treatment of women with axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer ( 1.1 ) • for the treatment of: acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, Hodgkin lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, metastatic breast cancer, metastatic Wilms' tumor, metastatic neuroblastoma, metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, metastatic bone sarcomas, metastatic ovarian carcinoma, metastatic transitional cell bladder carcinoma, metastatic thyroid carcinoma, metastatic gastric carcinoma, metastatic bronchogenic carcinoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adjuvant Breast Cancer Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is indicated as a component of multi-agent adjuvant chemotherapy for treatment of women with axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer . 1.2 Other Cancers Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the treatment of • acute lymphoblastic leukemia • acute myeloblastic leukemia • Hodgkin lymphoma • non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) • metastatic breast cancer • metastatic Wilms' tumor • metastatic neuroblastoma • metastatic soft tissue sarcoma • metastatic bone sarcoma • metastatic ovarian carcinoma • metastatic transitional cell bladder carcinoma • metastatic thyroid carcinoma • metastatic gastric carcinoma • metastatic bronchogenic carcinoma

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection are contraindicated in patients with: • Severe myocardial insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Recent (occurring within the past 4–6 weeks) myocardial infarction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Severe persistent drug-induced myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Severe hepatic impairment (defined as Child Pugh Class C or serum bilirubin level greater than 5 mg/dL) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Severe hypersensitivity reaction to doxorubicin hydrochloride, including anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • Severe myocardial insufficiency ( 4 ) • Recent myocardial infarction ( 4 ) • Severe persistent drug-induced myelosuppression ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to doxorubicin hydrochloride ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: CARDIOMYOPATHY, SECONDARY MALIGNANCIES, EXTRAVASATION AND TISSUE NECROSIS, and SEVERE MYELOSUPPRESSION • Cardiomyopathy: Myocardial damage, including acute left ventricular failure, can occur with doxorubicin hydrochloride. The risk of cardiomyopathy is proportional to the cumulative exposure with incidence rates from 1%–20% for cumulative doses ranging from 300 mg/m 2 to 500 mg/m 2 when doxorubicin hydrochloride is administered every 3 weeks. The risk of cardiomyopathy is further increased with concomitant cardiotoxic therapy. Assess left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) before and regularly during and after treatment with doxorubicin hydrochloride [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • Secondary Malignancies: Secondary acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) occur at a higher incidence in patients treated with anthracyclines, including doxorubicin hydrochloride [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Extravasation and Tissue Necrosis: Extravasation of doxorubicin hydrochloride can result in severe local tissue injury and necrosis requiring wide excision of the affected area and skin grafting. Immediately terminate the drug and apply ice to the affected area [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Severe myelosuppression resulting in serious infection, septic shock, requirement for transfusions, hospitalization, and death may occur [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . WARNING: CARDIOMYOPATHY, SECONDARY MALIGNANCIES, EXTRAVASATION AND TISSUE NECROSIS, and SEVERE MYELOSUPPRESSION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. • Cardiomyopathy: Myocardial damage can occur with doxorubicin hydrochloride with incidences from 1%–20% for cumulative doses from 300 mg/m 2 to 500 mg/m 2 when doxorubicin hydrochloride is administered every 3 weeks. The risk of cardiomyopathy is further increased with concomitant cardiotoxic therapy. Assess left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) before and regularly during and after treatment with doxorubicin hydrochloride. ( 5.1 ) • Secondary Malignancies: Secondary acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) occur at a higher incidence in patients treated with anthracyclines, including doxorubicin hydrochloride. ( 5.2 ) • Extravasation and Tissue Necrosis: Extravasation of doxorubicin hydrochloride can result in severe local tissue injury and necrosis requiring wide excision and skin grafting. Immediately terminate the drug, and apply ice to the affected area. ( 5.3 ) • Severe myelosuppression resulting in serious infection, septic shock, requirement for transfusions, hospitalization, and death may occur. ( 5.4 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single agent : 60 to 75 mg/m 2 given intravenously every 21 days ( 2.2 ) • In combination : 40 to 75 mg/m 2 given intravenously every 21 to 28 days ( 2.2 ) • Discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients who develop signs or symptoms of cardiomyopathy ( 2.3 ) • Reduce dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Adjuvant Breast Cancer The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is 60 mg/m 2 administered as an intravenous bolus on day 1 of each 21-day treatment cycle, in combination with cyclophosphamide, for a total of four cycles . 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Other Cancers • The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection when used as a single agent is 60 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 intravenously every 21 days. • The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection, when administered in combination with other chemotherapy drugs, is 40 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 intravenously every 21 to 28 days. • Consider use of the lower Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection dose in the recommended dosage range or longer intervals between cycles for heavily pretreated patients, elderly patients, or obese patients. • Cumulative doses above 550 mg/m 2 are associated with an increased risk of cardiomyopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Cardiomyopathy Discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients who develop signs or symptoms of cardiomyopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications for Hepatic Impairment Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C or serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dL) [see Contraindications (4) ]. Dosage modifications for Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients with elevated serum total bilirubin concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] are provided in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Dosage Modification for Elevated Serum Total Bilirubin Serum Total Bilirubin Concentration Dosage Modification 1.2–3 mg/dL 50% 3.1–5 mg/dL 75% Greater than 5 mg/dL Do not initiate Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection; discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection 2.5 Preparation and Administration Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 Preparation Dilution of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection • Dilute Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. • Protect from light following preparation until completion of infusion. • Use within 1 hour. If not used within 1 hour, discard the diluted product. Administration • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if the solution is discolored, cloudy, or contains particulate matter. Administration by Intravenous Injection • Administer diluted Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection as an intravenous injection through a central intravenous line or a secure and free-flowing peripheral venous line containing 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. • Administer intravenously over 3 to 10 minutes. Decrease the rate of infusion if erythematous streaking along the vein proximal to the site of infusion or facial flushing occur. Administration by Continuous Intravenous Infusion • Administer diluted Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection solution only through a central intravenous line. Decrease the rate of infusion if erythematous streaking along the vein proximal to the site of infusion or facial flushing occur. • Protect from light from preparation for infusion until completion of infusion. Management of Suspected Extravasation Immediately discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection for burning or stinging sensation or other evidence indicating peri-venous infiltration or extravasation. Manage confirmed or suspected extravasation as follows: • Do not remove the needle until attempts are made to aspirate extravasated fluid. • Do not flush the line. • Avoid applying pressure to the site. • Apply ice to the site intermittently for 15 minutes, 4 times a day for 3 days. • If the extravasation is in an extremity, elevate the extremity. • In adults, consider administration of dexrazoxane [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Management of Contact with Skin or Eyes Treat accidental contact with the skin or eyes immediately by copious lavage with water, or soap and water, or sodium bicarbonate solution. Do not abrade the skin by using a scrub brush. Seek medical attention. Incompatibility with Other Drugs Do not admix Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection with other drugs. If Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is mixed with heparin or fluorouracil, a precipitate may form. Avoid contact with alkaline solutions which can lead to hydrolysis of doxorubicin hydrochloride.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling. • Cardiomyopathy and Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Secondary Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Extravasation and Tissue Necrosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Severe Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Tumor Lysis Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Radiation Sensitization and Radiation Recall [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] The most common (>10%) adverse reactions are alopecia, nausea and vomiting. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer, Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Breast Cancer The safety data below were collected from 1492 women who received doxorubicin hydrochloride at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 and cyclophosphamide at a dose of 600 mg/m 2 (AC) every 3 weeks for 4 cycles for the adjuvant treatment of axillary lymph node positive breast cancer. The median number of cycles received was 4. Selected adverse reactions reported in this study are provided in Table 2. No treatment-related deaths were reported in patients on either arm of the study. Table 2. Selected Adverse Reactions in Patients with Early Breast Cancer Involving Axillary Lymph Nodes Adverse Reactions AC Includes pooled data from patients who received either AC for 4 cycles or AC for 4 cycles followed by CMF for 3 cycles N = 1492 Conventional CMF N = 739 % % AC = doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide; CMF = cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil Alopecia 92 71 Vomiting Vomiting ≤12 hours 34 25 Vomiting >12 hours 37 12 Intractable 5 2 Leukopenia Grade 3 (1,000–1,999 /mm 3 ) 3.4 9.4 Grade 4 (<1000 /mm 3 ) 0.3 0.3 Shock, sepsis 2 1 Systemic infection 2 1 Cardiac dysfunction Asymptomatic 0.2 0.1 Transient 0.1 0 Symptomatic 0.1 0 Thrombocytopenia Grade 3 (25,000–49,999 /mm 3 ) 0 0.3 Grade 4 (<25,000 /mm 3 ) 0.1 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac – Cardiogenic shock Cutaneous – Skin and nail hyperpigmentation, oncolysis, rash, itching, photosensitivity, urticaria, acral erythema, palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia Gastrointestinal – Nausea, mucositis, stomatitis, necrotizing colitis, typhlitis, gastric erosions, gastrointestinal tract bleeding, hematochezia, esophagitis, anorexia, abdominal pain, dehydration, diarrhea, hyperpigmentation of the oral mucosa Hypersensitivity – Anaphylaxis Laboratory Abnormalities – Increased ALT, increased AST Neurological – Peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy, seizures, coma Ocular – Conjunctivitis, keratitis, lacrimation Vascular – Phlebosclerosis, phlebitis/thrombophlebitis, hot flashes, thromboembolism Other – Malaise/asthenia, fever, chills, weight gain

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid concomitant use of doxorubicin hydrochloride with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and/or P-gp ( 7.1 ) • Do not administer doxorubicin hydrochloride in combination with trastuzumab due to increased risk of cardiac dysfunction ( 5.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp Concomitant use of doxorubicin hydrochloride with inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-glycoprotein (P-gp), increased concentrations of doxorubicin, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of doxorubicin hydrochloride. Avoid concomitant use of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection with inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp. Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp Concomitant use of doxorubicin hydrochloride with inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin. Avoid concomitant use of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection with inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp. Paclitaxel Paclitaxel, when given prior to doxorubicin hydrochloride, increases the plasma-concentrations of doxorubicin and its metabolites. Administer Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection prior to paclitaxel if used concomitantly. 7.2 Concomitant Use of Trastuzumab Concomitant use of trastuzumab and doxorubicin hydrochloride results in an increased risk of cardiac dysfunction. Avoid concomitant administration of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection and trastuzumab [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Patients receiving doxorubicin after stopping treatment with trastuzumab may also be at an increased risk of developing cardiotoxicity. Trastuzumab may persist in the circulation for up to 7 months. Therefore, avoid anthracycline-based therapy for up to 7 months after stopping trastuzumab when possible. If anthracyclines are used before this time, carefully monitor cardiac function. 7.3 Concomitant Use of Dexrazoxane Do not administer dexrazoxane as a cardioprotectant at the initiation of doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing chemotherapy regimens. In a randomized trial in women with metastatic breast cancer, initiation of dexrazoxane with doxorubicin hydrochloride-based chemotherapy resulted in a significantly lower tumor response rate (48% vs. 63%; p = 0.007) and shorter time to progression compared to doxorubicin hydrochloride-based chemotherapy alone. 7.4 Concomitant Use of 6-Mercaptopurine Doxorubicin hydrochloride may potentiate 6-mercaptopurine-induced hepatotoxicity. In 11 patients with refractory leukemia treated with 6-mercaptopurine (500 mg/m 2 intravenously daily for 5 days per cycle every 2–3 weeks) and doxorubicin hydrochloride (50 mg/m 2 intravenous once per cycle every 2–3 weeks) alone or with vincristine and prednisone, all developed hepatic dysfunction manifested by increased total serum bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase and aspartate aminotransferase.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animals and its mechanism of action, Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman; avoid the use of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection during the 1 st trimester. Available human data do not establish the presence or absence of major birth defects and miscarriage related to the use of doxorubicin hydrochloride during the 2 nd and 3 rd trimesters. Doxorubicin hydrochloride was teratogenic and embryotoxic in rats and embryotoxic in rabbits when administered during organogenesis at doses approximately 0.07 times (based on body surface area) the recommended human dose of 60 mg/m 2 (see Data ) . Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Data Animal Data Doxorubicin hydrochloride was teratogenic and embryotoxic at doses of 0.8 mg/kg/day (about 0.07 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) when administered during the period of organogenesis in rats. Teratogenicity and embryotoxicity were also seen using discrete periods of treatment. The most susceptible was the 6- to 9-day gestation period at doses of 1.25 mg/kg/day and greater. Characteristic malformations included esophageal and intestinal atresia, tracheo-esophageal fistula, hypoplasia of the urinary bladder, and cardiovascular anomalies. Doxorubicin hydrochloride was embryotoxic (increase in embryo-fetal deaths) and abortifacient at 0.4 mg/kg/day (about 0.07 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) in rabbits when administered during the period of organogenesis.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Based on postmarketing reports, pediatric patients treated with doxorubicin hydrochloride are at risk for developing late cardiovascular dysfunction. Risk factors include young age at treatment (especially < 5 years), high cumulative doses and receipt of combined modality therapy. Long-term periodic cardiovascular monitoring is recommended for all pediatric patients who have received doxorubicin hydrochloride. Doxorubicin hydrochloride, as a component of intensive chemotherapy regimens administered to pediatric patients, may contribute to prepubertal growth failure and may also contribute to gonadal impairment, which is usually temporary. There are no recommended dose adjustments based on age. Doxorubicin clearance was increased in patients aged 2 years to 20 years as compared to adults, while doxorubicin clearance was similar in infants less than 2 years as compared to adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Clinical experience in patients who were 65 years of age and older who received doxorubicin hydrochloride-based chemotherapy regimens for metastatic breast cancer showed no overall differences in safety and effectiveness compared with younger patients.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Few cases of overdose have been described. A 58-year-old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia received 10-fold overdose of doxorubicin hydrochloride (300 mg/m 2 ) in one day. He was treated with charcoal filtration, hemopoietic growth factor (G-CSF), proton pump inhibitor and antimicrobial prophylaxis. The patient suffered sinus tachycardia, grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia for 11 days, severe mucositis and sepsis. The patient recovered completely 26 days after the overdose. A 17-year-old girl with osteogenic sarcoma received 150 mg of doxorubicin hydrochloride daily for 2 days (intended dose was 50 mg per day for 3 days). The patient developed severe mucositis on days 4–7 after the overdose and chills and pyrexia on day 7. The patient was treated with antibiotics and platelets and recovered 18 days after overdose.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Adjuvant Breast Cancer The efficacy of doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing regimens for the post-operative, adjuvant treatment of surgically resected breast cancer was evaluated in a meta-analysis conducted by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists Collaborative Group (EBCTCG). The EBCTCG meta-analyses compared cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) to no chemotherapy (19 trials including 7523 patients) and doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing regimens with CMF as an active control (6 trials including 3510 patients). Data from the meta-analysis of trials comparing CMF to no therapy were used to establish the historical treatment effect size for CMF regimens. The major efficacy outcome measures were disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). Of the 3510 women (2157 received doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing regimens and 1353 received CMF treatment) with early breast cancer involving axillary lymph nodes included in the six trials from the meta-analyses, approximately 70% were premenopausal and 30% were postmenopausal. At the time of the meta-analysis, 1745 first recurrences and 1348 deaths had occurred. The analyses demonstrated that doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing regimens retained at least 75% of the historical CMF adjuvant effect on DFS with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.91 (95% CI: 0.82, 1.01) and on OS with a HR of 0.91 (95% CI: 0.81, 1.03). Efficacy results are provided in Table 3 and Figures 1 and 2. Table 3. Summary of Randomized Trials Comparing Doxorubicin Hydrochloride-Containing Regimens Versus CMF in Meta-Analysis Study (starting year) Regimens No. of Cycles No. of Patients Doxorubicin Hydrochloride‑Containing Regimens vs. CMF HR Hazard ratio of less than 1 indicates that the treatment with doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing regimens is associated with lower risk of disease recurrences or death compared to the treatment with CMF. (95% CI) DFS OS Abbreviations: DFS = disease free survival; OS = overall survival; AC = doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide; AVbCMF = doxorubicin hydrochloride, vinblastine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil; CMF = cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil; CMFVA = cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, vincristine, doxorubicin hydrochloride; FAC = fluorouracil, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide; FACV = fluorouracil, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, vincristine; HR = hazard ratio; CI = confidence interval NSABP B-15 (1984) AC 4 1562 Includes pooled data from patients who received either AC alone for 4 cycles, or who were treated with AC for 4 cycles followed by 3 cycles of CMF. 0.93 (0.82, 1.06) 0.97 (0.83, 1.12) CMF 6 776 SECSG 2 (1976) FAC 6 260 0.86 (0.66, 1.13) 0.93 (0.69, 1.26) CMF 6 268 ONCOFRANCE (1978) FACV 12 138 0.71 (0.49, 1.03) 0.65 (0.44, 0.96) CMF 12 113 SE Sweden BCG A (1980) AC 6 21 0.59 (0.22, 1.61) 0.53 (0.21, 1.37) CMF 6 22 NSABC Israel Br0283 (1983) AVbCMF Patients received alternating cycles of AVb and CMF. 4 6 55 0.91 (0.53, 1.57) 0.88 (0.47, 1.63) CMF 6 50 Austrian BCSG 3 (1984) CMFVA 6 121 1.07 (0.73, 1.55) 0.93 (0.64, 1.35) CMF 8 124 Combined Studies Doxorubicin Hydrochloride-Containing Regimen 2157 0.91 (0.82, 1.01) 0.91 (0.81, 1.03) CMF 1353 Figure 1. Meta-analysis of Disease-Free Survival Figure 2. Meta-analysis of Overall Survival Figure 1 Figure 2

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
Storage Store all vials at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Protect from light. Storage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection under refrigerated conditions can result in the formation of a gelled product. Place gelled product at room temperature [15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F)] for 2 to 4 hours to return the product to a slightly viscous, mobile solution.

SPL TEXT:
Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Doxorubicin Hydrochloride DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOXORUBICIN SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID WATER