DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
Description Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a clear, colorless to faintly pink-orange solution for topical application. Diclofenac sodium topical solution contains 1.5% w/w diclofenac sodium, a benzeneacetic acid derivative that is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), designated chemically as 2-[(2,6dichlorophenyl)amino]-benzeneacetic acid, monosodium salt. The molecular weight is 318.14. Its molecular formula is C14H10Cl2NNaO2 and it has the following structural formula: Each 1 mL of solution contains 16.05 mg of diclofenac sodium. In addition diclofenac sodium topical solution contains the following inactive ingredients: dimethyl sulfoxide USP (DMSO, 45.5% w/w), propylene glycol, alcohol, glycerin and purified water. formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
Clinical Pharmacology 12. CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of diclofenac is similar to that of other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Diclofenac inhibits the enzyme, cyclooxygenase (COX), an early component of the arachidonic acid cascade, resulting in the reduced formation of prostaglandins, thromboxanes and prostacylin. It is not completely understood how reduced synthesis of these compounds results in therapeutic efficacy. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Diclofenac, the active component of diclofenac sodium topical solution has anti-inflammatory, antinociception, and antipyretic effects. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics After topical administration to healthy human volunteers of single and multiple maximum doses of diclofenac sodium topical solution, 40 drops (approximately 1.2 mL) to each knee (80 drops total dose), the following diclofenac pharmacokinetic parameters were obtained: (see Table 2). Table 2: Single-Dose (80 drops) and Multiple Dose (80 drops four times daily for 7 days) Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution Pharmacokinetic Parameters Diclofenac sodium Normal Adults [N=18] Normal Adults [N=19] Pharmacokinetic (Age: 18-55 years) (Age: 18-55 years) Parameters Single Dose Multiple Dose Four times daily for 7 days AUC0-t 177.5 ± 72.6 ng.h/mL 695.4 ± 348.9 ng.h/mL AUC0-inf 196.3 ± 68.5 ng.h/mL 745.2 ± 374.7 ng.h/mL Plasma Cmax 8.1 ± 5.9 ng/mL 19.4 ± 9.3 ng/mL Plasma Tmax (h) 11.0 ± 6.4 4.0 ± 6.5 Plasma t1/2 (h) 36.7 ± 20.8 79.0 ± 38.1 Kel (h-1) 0.024 ± 0.010 0.011 ± 0.004 CL/F (L/h) 244.7 ± 84.7* - * Apparent total body clearance Absorption Diclofenac systemic exposure from diclofenac sodium topical solution application (4 times daily for 1 week) was approximately 1/3 of the diclofenac systemic exposure from the Solaraze (diclofenac topical gel) application (twice daily for 4 weeks). Distribution Diclofenac is more than 99% bound to human serum proteins, primarily to albumin. Diclofenac diffuses into and out of the synovial fluid. Diffusion into the joint occurs when plasma levels are higher than those in the synovial fluid, after which the process reverses and synovial fluid levels are higher than plasma levels. It is not known whether diffusion into the joint plays a role in the effectiveness of diclofenac. Metabolism Five diclofenac metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine. The metabolites include 4'hydroxy-, 5-hydroxy-, 3'-hydroxy-, 4',5-dihydroxy- and 3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxy diclofenac. The major diclofenac metabolite, 4'-hydroxy-diclofenac, has very weak pharmacologic activity. The formation of 4'-hydroxy diclofenac is primarily mediated by CPY2C9. Both diclofenac and its oxidative metabolites undergo glucuronidation or sulfation followed by bilIary excretion. Acylglucuronidation mediated by UGT2B7 and oxidation mediated by CPY2C8 may also play a role in diclofenac metabolism. CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of minor metabolites, 5-hydroxy and 3'-hydroxy-diclofenac. Excretion Diclofenac is eliminated through metabolism and subsequent urinary and biliary excretion of the glucuronide and the sulfate conjugates of the metabolites. Little or no free unchanged diclofenac is excreted in the urine. Special Populations Pediatric: The pharmacokinetics of diclofenac sodium topical solution has not been investigated in pediatric patients. Race: Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied. 12.4 Platelets The effect of diclofenac sodium topical solution on platelet function was evaluated in 10 healthy human volunteers as a sub-study of a multiple-dose pharmacokinetic study [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. Average (range) platelet aggregation time following stimulation with adenosine diphosphate, collagen, epinephrine and arachidonic acid was 101.3% (73.3 to 128.1), 99.8% (69.6 to 112.9), 109.9% (66.2 to 178.1) and 99.0% (15.5 to 126.6) of baseline value, respectively. These results indicate that there was no effect on platelet aggregation after application of the maximum clinical dose for 7 days [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)].

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Indication & Usage Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
Contraindications Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diclofenac sodium or any other component of diclofenac sodium topical solution. Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.10)]. Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac sodium. (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. (4) Use in the perioperative period of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. (4)

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK WARNING: CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Cardiovascular Risk Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk. (5.1) Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. (4) Gastrointestinal Risk NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events. (5.2) See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Cardiovascular Risk Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk. (5.1) Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. (4) Gastrointestinal Risk NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events. (5.2)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Dosage & Administration 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 General Instructions For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 drops per knee, 4 times a day. Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. To avoid spillage, dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. Spread diclofenac sodium topical solution evenly around front, back and sides of the knee. Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution. To treat the other knee, if symptomatic, repeat the procedure. Application of diclofenac sodium topical solution in an amount exceeding or less than the recommended dose has not been studied and is therefore not recommended. 2.2 Special Precautions Avoid showering/bathing for at least 30 minutes after the application of diclofenac sodium topical solution to the treated knee. Wash and dry hands after use. Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open wounds. Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucous membranes. Do not apply external heat and/or occlusive dressings to treated knees. Avoid wearing clothing over the diclofenac sodium topical solution-treated knee(s) until the treated knee is dry. Protect the treated knee(s) from sunlight. Wait until the treated area is dry before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same knee you have just treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution. Until the treated knee(s) is completely dry, avoid skin-to-skin contact between other people and the treated knee(s). For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 drops on each painful knee, 4 times a day. (2) Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. (2.1) Dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. Spread diclofenac sodium topical solution evenly around front, back and sides of the knee. Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution. (2.1) Wash hands completely after administering the product. Wait until the area is completely dry before covering with clothing or applying sunscreen, insect repellent, cosmetics, topical medications, or other substances. Do not get diclofenac sodium topical solution in your eyes, nose or mouth.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
Adverse Reactions 6. ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of another drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasians, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application site reactions: In controlled trials, the most common treatment related adverse events in patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. Application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vescicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac. In the open label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Adverse events common to the NSAID class: In controlled trials, subjects treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 1). The combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 1: lists all adverse reactions occurring in ≥1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in ≥1% of patients treated with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution in placebo and oral diclofenac-controlled trials. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In non – U.S. postmarketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post-approval use of diclofenac sodium topical solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, lack of drug effect, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Digestive: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: contact dermatitis, contact dermatitis with vesicles, dry skin, pruritus, rash; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, rash, pruritus, skin discoloration, urticaria Special senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teligent Pharma, Inc. at 1-856-697-1441 or FDA at 1-800-332-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] Hepatotoxicity [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3)] Hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.4)] Heart Failure and Edema [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] Serious Skin Reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)] Hematologic Toxicity [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11)] To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teligent Pharma, Inc. at 1-856-697-1441 or FDA at 1-800-332-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. table

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
Drug Interaction 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions with the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution have not been studied. The following drug interactions [sections 7.1 to 7.7] are noted for oral diclofenac sodium. 7.1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced, although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. 7.3 ACE-Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. The response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 7.9 Topical Treatments Instruct patients that before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same skin surface of the knee treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, they must wait until the treated area is completely dry. Concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GAI bleeding. (7.1) Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. (7.2)

OVERDOSAGE:
Overdosage There have been no known experiences of overdose with diclofenac sodium topical solution. Symptoms following acute NSAID overdose are usually limited to lethargy, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, and epigastric pain, which are generally reversible with supportive care. Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur. Hypertension, acute renal failure, respiratory depression and coma may occur, but are rare. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs, and may occur following an overdose. Manage patients using symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose. There are no specific antidotes. Emesis is not recommended due to a possibility of aspiration and subsequent respiratory irritation by DMSO contained in diclofenac sodium topical solution. Activated charcoal (60 to 100 g in adults, 1 to 2 g/kg in children) and/or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large overdose (5 to 10 times the usual dose). Forced diureses, alkalinization of urine, hemodialysis, or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding. For additional information about overdose treatment, call a poison control center (1-800-222-1222).

CLINICAL STUDIES:
Clinical Studies 14. CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Pivotal Studies in Osteoarthritis of the Knee The use of diclofenac sodium topical solution for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee was evaluated in two double-blind controlled trials conducted in the U.S. and Canada, involving patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution at a dose of 40 drops four times a day for 12 weeks. Diclofenac sodium topical solution was compared to topical placebo (2.3% DMSO with other excipients) and/or topical vehicle solution (45.5% w/w DMSO with other excipients), applied directly to the study knee. In both trials, diclofenac sodium topical solution treatment resulted in statistically significant clinical improvement compared to placebo and/or vehicle, in all three primary efficacy variables – pain, physical function (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities LK3.1 OA Index (WOMAC) pain and physical function dimensions) and Patient Overall Health Assessment (POHA)/Patient Global Assessment (PGA). Numerical results are summarized in Tables 3 and 4. Table 3: Change in treatment outcomes after 12 weeks of treatment in one study of efficacy of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution Study1 ​Mean baseline score and mean change in efficacy variables after 12 weeks of treatment Efficacy Variable Mean Baseline Score Diclofenac Sodium N=154 ​Topical Placebo* N=155 ​Topical Vehicle N=161 WOMAC Pain Score (Likert 3.1, 0-20) 13 -6.0 -4.7 -4.7 WOMAC physical score (LIkert 3.1, 0-68) 42 -15.7 -12.3 -12.1 POHA (0-4) 2.3 -1.0 -0.4 -0.6 *placebo formulation included 2.3% DMSO +vehicle formulation included 45.5% DMSO Table 4: Change in treatment outcomes after 12 weeks of treatment in one study of efficacy of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution Study II Mean baseline score and mean change in efficacy variables after 12 weeks of treatment Efficacy Variable​ Mean Baseline Score Diclofenac Sodium N=154 ​Topical Vehicle N=161 WOMAC Pain Score (Likert 3.1, 0-20) 13 -5.9 -4.4 WOMAC physical score (LIkert 3.1, 0-68) 42 -15.3 -10.3 PGA (0-4) 3.1 -1.3 -1.0 *vehicle formulation included 45.5% DMSO

SPL TEXT:
Diclofenac Sodium 1.5% Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution ALCOHOL GLYCERIN WATER PROPYLENE GLYCOL DIMETHYL SULFOXIDE DICLOFENAC SODIUM DICLOFENAC