DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for oral administration. It is also marketed for the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (Sarafem ® , fluoxetine hydrochloride). It is designated (±)- N -methyl-3-phenyl-3-[(α,α,α- p -tolyl)oxy]propylamine hydrochloride and has the molecular formula of C 17 H 18 F 3 NO·HCl. Its molecular weight is 345.79. The structural formula is: Fluoxetine hydrochloride, USP is a white to off-white crystalline solid with a solubility of 14 mg/mL in water. Each capsule contains fluoxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg of fluoxetine. The capsules also contain colloidal silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate, pregelatinized starch and sodium lauryl sulfate. In addition, each of the empty gelatin capsules contains gelatin, sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide and the following colorant agents: 10 mg – FD&C Red No. 40; the 20 mg – FD&C Blue No. 1 and FD&C Red No. 40; and the 40 mg – FD&C Blue No. 1 and FD&C Red No. 3. The imprinting ink contains the following: black iron oxide, D&C Yellow No. 10 Aluminum Lake, FD&C Blue No. 1 Aluminum Lake, FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake, FD&C Red No. 40 Aluminum Lake, propylene glycol and shellac glaze. Structural Formula

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Although the exact mechanism of fluoxetine is unknown, it is presumed to be linked to its inhibition of CNS neuronal uptake of serotonin. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Studies at clinically relevant doses in man have demonstrated that fluoxetine blocks the uptake of serotonin into human platelets. Studies in animals also suggest that fluoxetine is a much more potent uptake inhibitor of serotonin than of norepinephrine. Antagonism of muscarinic, histaminergic and α 1 -adrenergic receptors has been hypothesized to be associated with various anticholinergic, sedative and cardiovascular effects of classical tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) drugs. Fluoxetine binds to these and other membrane receptors from brain tissue much less potently in vitro than do the tricyclic drugs. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic Bioavailability In man, following a single oral 40 mg dose, peak plasma concentrations of fluoxetine from 15 to 55 ng/mL are observed after 6 to 8 hours. The capsule, oral solution and weekly capsule dosage forms of fluoxetine are bioequivalent. Food does not appear to affect the systemic bioavailability of fluoxetine, although it may delay its absorption by 1 to 2 hours, which is probably not clinically significant. Thus, fluoxetine may be administered with or without food. Protein Binding Over the concentration range from 200 to 1000 ng/mL, approximately 94.5% of fluoxetine is bound in vitro to human serum proteins, including albumin and α 1 -glycoprotein. The interaction between fluoxetine and other highly protein bound drugs has not been fully evaluated, but may be important. Enantiomers Fluoxetine is a racemic mixture (50/50) of R -fluoxetine and S -fluoxetine enantiomers. In animal models, both enantiomers are specific and potent serotonin uptake inhibitors with essentially equivalent pharmacologic activity. The S -fluoxetine enantiomer is eliminated more slowly and is the predominant enantiomer present in plasma at steady-state. Metabolism Fluoxetine is extensively metabolized in the liver to norfluoxetine and a number of other unidentified metabolites. The only identified active metabolite, norfluoxetine, is formed by demethylation of fluoxetine. In animal models, S- norfluoxetine is a potent and selective inhibitor of serotonin uptake and has activity essentially equivalent to R - or S -fluoxetine. R -norfluoxetine is significantly less potent than the parent drug in the inhibition of serotonin uptake. The primary route of elimination appears to be hepatic metabolism to inactive metabolites excreted by the kidney. Variability in Metabolism A subset (about 7%) of the population has reduced activity of the drug metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). Such individuals are referred to as “poor metabolizers” of drugs such as debrisoquin, dextromethorphan and the TCAs. In a study involving labeled and unlabeled enantiomers administered as a racemate, these individuals metabolized S -fluoxetine at a slower rate and thus achieved higher concentrations of S -fluoxetine. Consequently, concentrations of S -norfluoxetine at steady state were lower. The metabolism of R -fluoxetine in these poor metabolizers appears normal. When compared with normal metabolizers, the total sum at steady-state of the plasma concentrations of the four active enantiomers was not significantly greater among poor metabolizers. Thus, the net pharmacodynamic activities were essentially the same. Alternative, nonsaturable pathways (non-2D6) also contribute to the metabolism of fluoxetine. This explains how fluoxetine achieves a steady-state concentration rather than increasing without limit. Because fluoxetine’s metabolism, like that of a number of other compounds including TCAs and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), involves the CYP2D6 system, concomitant therapy with drugs also metabolized by this enzyme system (such as the TCAs) may lead to drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7.9) ]. Accumulation and Slow Elimination The relatively slow elimination of fluoxetine (elimination half-life of 1 to 3 days after acute administration and 4 to 6 days after chronic administration) and its active metabolite, norfluoxetine (elimination half-life of 4 to 16 days after acute and chronic administration), leads to significant accumulation of these active species in chronic use and delayed attainment of steady-state, even when a fixed dose is used [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. After 30 days of dosing at 40 mg/day, plasma concentrations of fluoxetine in the range of 91 to 302 ng/mL and norfluoxetine in the range of 72 to 258 ng/mL have been observed. Plasma concentrations of fluoxetine were higher than those predicted by single-dose studies, because fluoxetine’s metabolism is not proportional to dose. Norfluoxetine, however, appears to have linear pharmacokinetics. Its mean terminal half-life after a single dose was 8.6 days and after multiple dosing was 9.3 days. Steady-state levels after prolonged dosing are similar to levels seen at 4 to 5 weeks. The long elimination half-lives of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine assure that, even when dosing is stopped, active drug substance will persist in the body for weeks (primarily depending on individual patient characteristics, previous dosing regimen and length of previous therapy at discontinuation). This is of potential consequence when drug discontinuation is required or when drugs are prescribed that might interact with fluoxetine and norfluoxetine following the discontinuation of fluoxetine. 12.4 Specific Populations Liver Disease As might be predicted from its primary site of metabolism, liver impairment can affect the elimination of fluoxetine. The elimination half-life of fluoxetine was prolonged in a study of cirrhotic patients, with a mean of 7.6 days compared with the range of 2 to 3 days seen in subjects without liver disease; norfluoxetine elimination was also delayed, with a mean duration of 12 days for cirrhotic patients compared with the range of 7 to 9 days in normal subjects. This suggests that the use of fluoxetine in patients with liver disease must be approached with caution. If fluoxetine is administered to patients with liver disease, a lower or less frequent dose should be used [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Renal Disease In depressed patients on dialysis (N = 12), fluoxetine administered as 20 mg once daily for 2 months produced steady-state fluoxetine and norfluoxetine plasma concentrations comparable with those seen in patients with normal renal function. While the possibility exists that renally excreted metabolites of fluoxetine may accumulate to higher levels in patients with severe renal dysfunction, use of a lower or less frequent dose is not routinely necessary in renally impaired patients. Geriatric Pharmacokinetics The disposition of single doses of fluoxetine in healthy elderly subjects (> 65 years of age) did not differ significantly from that in younger normal subjects. However, given the long half-life and nonlinear disposition of the drug, a single-dose study is not adequate to rule out the possibility of altered pharmacokinetics in the elderly, particularly if they have systemic illness or are receiving multiple drugs for concomitant diseases. The effects of age upon the metabolism of fluoxetine have been investigated in 260 elderly but otherwise healthy depressed patients ( > 60 years of age) who received 20 mg fluoxetine for 6 weeks. Combined fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine plasma concentrations were 209.3 ± 85.7 ng/mL at the end of 6 weeks. No unusual age-associated pattern of adverse reactions was observed in those elderly patients. Pediatric Pharmacokinetics (children and adolescents) Fluoxetine pharmacokinetics were evaluated in 21 pediatric patients (ten children ages 6 to < 13, 11 adolescents ages 13 to < 18) diagnosed with major depressive disorder or obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Fluoxetine 20 mg/day was administered for up to 62 days. The average steady-state concentrations of fluoxetine in these children were 2-fold higher than in adolescents (171 and 86 ng/mL, respectively). The average norfluoxetine steady-state concentrations in these children were 1.5-fold higher than in adolescents (195 and 113 ng/mL, respectively). These differences can be almost entirely explained by differences in weight. No gender-associated difference in fluoxetine pharmacokinetics was observed. Similar ranges of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine plasma concentrations were observed in another study in 94 pediatric patients (ages 8 to < 18) diagnosed with major depressive disorder. Higher average steady-state fluoxetine and norfluoxetine concentrations were observed in children relative to adults; however, these concentrations were within the range of concentrations observed in the adult population. As in adults, fluoxetine and norfluoxetine accumulated extensively following multiple oral dosing; steady-state concentrations were achieved within 3 to 4 weeks of daily dosing.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Although the exact mechanism of fluoxetine is unknown, it is presumed to be linked to its inhibition of CNS neuronal uptake of serotonin.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adult and pediatric patients aged 8 to 18 years. ( 1.1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) in adult and pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years. ( 1.2 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of bulimia nervosa in adult patients. ( 1.3 ) Acute treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients. ( 1.4 ) Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination for: Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 8 to18 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The usefulness of the drug in adult and pediatric patients receiving fluoxetine for extended periods, should periodically be reevaluated [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. 1.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. The effectiveness of fluoxetine in long-term use, i.e., for more than 13 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine capsules for extended periods, should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 1.3 Bulimia Nervosa Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in adult patients with moderate to severe bulimia nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . The physician who elects to use fluoxetine capsules for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 1.4 Panic Disorder Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the acute treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. The effectiveness of fluoxetine in long-term use, i.e., for more than 12 weeks, has not been established in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine capsules for extended periods, should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. 1.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination is indicated for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adult patients. Fluoxetine capsule monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7.9) ] Thioridazine [see Drug Interactions (7.9) ] Do not use with an MAOI or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI due to risk of drug interaction. At least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before treatment with an MAOI. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Do not use with pimozide due to risk of drug interaction or QT c prolongation. ( 4 , 7.9 ) Do not use with thioridazine due to QT c interval prolongation or potential for elevated thioridazine plasma levels. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine. ( 4 , 7.9 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Anyone considering the use of fluoxetine or any other antidepressant in a child, adolescent or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide. Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality or unusual changes in behavior. Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber. Fluoxetine is approved for use in pediatric patients with MDD and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to Boxed Warning section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . WARNING: SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents and young adults taking antidepressants for major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders ( 5.1 ). When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to Boxed Warning section of the package insert for Symbyax ® .

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am - Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) - Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) - Consider tapering the dose of fluoxetine for pregnant women during the third trimester. ( 2.7 ) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications. ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combinatio n: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 2.5 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in major depressive disorder in most cases. Consequently, a dose of 20 mg/day, administered in the morning, is recommended as the initial dose. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once-a-day (morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon) and should not exceed a maximum dose of 80 mg/day. Pediatric (children and adolescents) In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of major depressive disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 or 20 mg/day. After one week at 10 mg/day, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. However, due to higher plasma levels in lower weight children, the starting and target dose in this group may be 10 mg/day. A dose increase to 20 mg/day may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. All patients As with other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Maintenance/Continuation/Extended Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Whether the dose needed to induce remission is identical to the dose needed to maintain and/or sustain euthymia is unknown. Daily Dosing Systematic evaluation of fluoxetine capsules in adult patients has shown that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 38 weeks following 12 weeks of open-label acute treatment (50 weeks total) at a dose of 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7.9) ]. Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine capsules. In addition, at least 5 weeks, perhaps longer, should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine capsules before starting an MAOI [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. In one of these studies, no dose-response relationship for effectiveness was demonstrated. Consequently, a dose of 20 mg/day, administered in the morning, is recommended as the initial dose. Since there was a suggestion of a possible dose-response relationship for effectiveness in the second study, a dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. The full therapeutic effect may be delayed until 5 weeks of treatment or longer. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once daily (i.e., morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon). A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended; however, doses of up to 80 mg/day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD. The maximum fluoxetine dose should not exceed 80 mg/day. Pediatric (children and adolescents) In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. In adolescents and higher weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After 2 weeks, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended. In lower weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. A dose range of 20 to 30 mg/day is recommended. Experience with daily doses greater than 20 mg is very minimal, and there is no experience with doses greater than 60 mg. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine capsules, OCD is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Although the efficacy of fluoxetine after 13 weeks has not been documented in controlled trials, adult patients have been continued in therapy under double-blind conditions for up to an additional 6 months without loss of benefit. However, dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for treatment. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of bulimia nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 mg or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. Only the 60 mg dose was statistically significantly superior to placebo in reducing the frequency of binge-eating and vomiting. Consequently, the recommended dose is 60 mg/day, administered in the morning. For some patients it may be advisable to titrate up to this target dose over several days. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment Systematic evaluation of continuing fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day for periods of up to 52 weeks in patients with bulimia who have responded while taking fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day during an 8-week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of panic disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After one week, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. The most frequently administered dose in the two flexible-dose clinical trials was 20 mg/day. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with panic disorder. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine capsules, panic disorder is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. 2.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine should be administered in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 mg to 12.5 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ® (fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax ® is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine vs. Symbyax ® . Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. TABLE 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax ® and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax ® (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10 + 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40 + 10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10 + 2.5 40 + 10 While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The physician should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Safety of coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Fluoxetine capsule monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women during the Third Trimester When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine capsules during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SNRIs or SSRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support and tube feeding. The physician may consider tapering fluoxetine capsules in the third trimester [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Geriatrics A lower or less frequent dosage should be considered for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Hepatic Impairment As with many other medications, a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Concomitant Illness Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 mg to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Dosing modifications may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 18 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Drug Interactions (7.9) ]. 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ].

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Adverse Reactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Most common adverse reactions ( > 5% and at least twice that for placebo) associated with: Major depressive disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, bulimia and panic disorder: abnormal dreams, abnormal ejaculation, anorexia, anxiety, asthenia, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flu syndrome, impotence, insomnia, libido decreased, nausea, nervousness, pharyngitis, rash, sinusitis, somnolence, sweating, tremor, vasodilatation and yawn. ( 6.1 ) Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination – Also refer to the Adverse Reactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Med Health Pharma, LLC at 1-877-896-6654 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect or predict the rates observed in practice. Multiple doses of fluoxetine had been administered to 10,782 patients with various diagnoses in U.S. clinical trials as of May 8, 1995. In addition, there have been 425 patients administered fluoxetine in panic clinical trials. Adverse reactions were recorded by clinical investigators using descriptive terminology of their own choosing. Consequently, it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse reactions without first grouping similar types of reactions into a limited (i.e., reduced) number of standardized reaction categories. In the tables and tabulations that follow, COSTART Dictionary terminology has been used to classify reported adverse reactions. The stated frequencies represent the proportion of individuals who experienced, at least once, a treatment-emergent adverse reaction of the type listed. A reaction was considered treatment-emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. It is important to emphasize that reactions reported during therapy were not necessarily caused by it. The prescriber should be aware that the figures in the tables and tabulations cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses and investigators. The cited figures, however, do provide the prescribing physician with some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the side effect incidence rate in the population studied. Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (excluding data from extensions of trials) Table 3 enumerates the most common treatment-emergent adverse reactions associated with the use of fluoxetine (incidence of at least 5% for fluoxetine and at least twice that for placebo within at least one of the indications) for the treatment of major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia in U.S. controlled clinical trials and panic disorder in U.S. plus non-U.S. controlled trials. Table 5 enumerates treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in 2% or more patients treated with fluoxetine and with incidence greater than placebo who participated in U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia controlled clinical trials and U.S. plus non-U.S. panic disorder controlled clinical trials. Table 4 provides combined data for the pool of studies that are provided separately by indication in Table 3. TABLE 3: Most Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Incidence less than 1% Includes U.S. data for major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. data for panic disorder clinical trials. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Major Depressive Disorder OCD Bulimia Panic Disorder Body System/Adverse Reaction Fluoxetine (N=1,728) Placebo (N=975) Fluoxetine (N=266) Placebo (N=89) Fluoxetine (N=450) Placebo (N=267) Fluoxetine (N=425) Placebo (N=342) Body as a Whole Asthenia 9 5 15 11 21 9 7 7 Flu syndrome 3 4 10 7 8 3 5 5 Cardiovascular System Vasodilatation 3 2 5 -- 2 1 1 -- Digestive System Nausea 21 9 26 13 29 11 12 7 Diarrhea 12 8 18 13 8 6 9 4 Anorexia 11 2 17 10 8 4 4 1 Dry mouth 10 7 12 3 9 6 4 4 Dyspepsia 7 5 10 4 10 6 6 2 Nervous System Insomnia 16 9 28 22 33 13 10 7 Anxiety 12 7 14 7 15 9 6 2 Nervousness 14 9 14 15 11 5 8 6 Somnolence 13 6 17 7 13 5 5 2 Tremor 10 3 9 1 13 1 3 1 Libido decreased 3 -- 11 2 5 1 1 2 Abnormal dreams 1 1 5 2 5 3 1 1 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 3 3 11 9 10 5 3 3 Sinusitis 1 4 5 2 6 4 2 3 Yawn -- -- 7 -- 11 -- 1 -- Skin and Appendages Sweating 8 3 7 -- 8 3 2 2 Rash 4 3 6 3 4 4 2 2 Urogenital System Impotence Denominator used was for males only (N = 690 fluoxetine major depressive disorder; N = 410 placebo major depressive disorder; N = 116 fluoxetine OCD; N = 43 placebo OCD; N = 4 fluoxetine bulimia; N = 1 placebo bulimia; N = 162 fluoxetine panic; N = 121 placebo panic). 2 -- -- -- 7 -- 1 -- Abnormal ejaculation ‡ -- -- 7 -- 7 -- 2 1 TABLE 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Incidence less than 1%. Includes U.S. data for major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. data for panic disorder clinical trials. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Combined Body System/Adverse Reaction Fluoxetine (N = 2,869) Placebo (N = 1,673) Body as a Whole Headache 21 19 Asthenia 11 6 Flu syndrome 5 4 Fever 2 1 Cardiovascular System Vasodilatation 2 1 Digestive System Nausea 22 9 Diarrhea 11 7 Anorexia 10 3 Dry mouth 9 6 Dyspepsia 8 4 Constipation 5 4 Flatulence 3 2 Vomiting 3 2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Weight loss 2 1 Nervous System Insomnia 19 10 Nervousness 13 8 Anxiety 12 6 Somnolence 12 5 Dizziness 9 6 Tremor 9 2 Libido decreased 4 1 Thinking abnormal 2 1 Respiratory System Yawn 3 -- Skin and Appendages Sweating 7 3 Rash 4 3 Pruritus 3 2 Special Senses Abnormal vision 2 1 Associated with Discontinuation in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (excluding data from extensions of trials) Table 5 lists the adverse reactions associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine treatment (incidence at least twice that for placebo and at least 1% for fluoxetine in clinical trials collecting only a primary reaction associated with discontinuation) in major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. panic disorder clinical trials. TABLE 5: Most Common Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Includes U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. panic disorder clinical trials. Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Combined (N = 1,533) Major Depressive Disorder (N = 392) OCD (N = 266) Bulimia (N = 450) Panic Disorder (N = 425) Anxiety (1%) -- Anxiety (2%) -- Anxiety (2%) -- -- -- Insomnia (2%) -- -- Nervousness (1%) -- -- Nervousness (1%) -- -- Rash (1%) -- -- Other Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients (children and adolescents) Treatment-emergent adverse reactions were collected in 322 pediatric patients (180 fluoxetine-treated, 142 placebo-treated). The overall profile of adverse reactions was generally similar to that seen in adult studies, as shown in Tables 4 and 5. However, the following adverse reactions (excluding those which appear in the body or footnotes of Tables 4 and 5 and those for which the COSTART terms were uninformative or misleading) were reported at an incidence of at least 2% for fluoxetine and greater than placebo: thirst, hyperkinesia, agitation, personality disorder, epistaxis, urinary frequency and menorrhagia. The most common adverse reaction (incidence at least 1% for fluoxetine and greater than placebo) associated with discontinuation in three pediatric placebo-controlled trials (N = 418 randomized; 228 fluoxetine-treated; 190 placebo-treated) was mania/hypomania (1.8% for fluoxetine-treated, 0% for placebo-treated). In these clinical trials, only a primary reaction associated with discontinuation was collected. Male and Female Sexual Dysfunction with SSRIs Although changes in sexual desire, sexual performance and sexual satisfaction often occur as manifestations of a psychiatric disorder, they may also be a consequence of pharmacologic treatment. In particular, some evidence suggests that SSRIs can cause such untoward sexual experiences. Reliable estimates of the incidence and severity of untoward experiences involving sexual desire, performance and satisfaction are difficult to obtain, however, in part because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss them. Accordingly, estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance, cited in product labeling, are likely to underestimate their actual incidence. In patients enrolled in U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia placebo-controlled clinical trials, decreased libido was the only sexual side effect reported by at least 2% of patients taking fluoxetine (4% fluoxetine, < 1% placebo). There have been spontaneous reports in women taking fluoxetine of orgasmic dysfunction, including anorgasmia. There are no adequate and well controlled studies examining sexual dysfunction with fluoxetine treatment. Priapism has been reported with all SSRIs. While it is difficult to know the precise risk of sexual dysfunction associated with the use of SSRIs, physicians should routinely inquire about such possible side effects. 6.2 Other Reactions Following is a list of treatment-emergent adverse reactions reported by patients treated with fluoxetine in clinical trials. This listing is not intended to include reactions (1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, (2) for which a drug cause was remote, (3) which were so general as to be uninformative, (4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or (5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Reactions are classified by body system using the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients; rare reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Body as a Whole: Frequent: chills; Infrequent: suicide attempt; Rare: acute abdominal syndrome, photosensitivity reaction. Cardiovascular System: Frequent: palpitation; Infrequent: arrhythmia. Digestive System: Infrequent: dysphagia, gastritis, gastroenteritis, melena, stomach ulcer; Rare: bloody diarrhea, duodenal ulcer, esophageal ulcer, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hematemesis, hepatitis, peptic ulcer, stomach ulcer hemorrhage. Hemic and Lymphatic System: Infrequent: ecchymosis; Rare: petechia, purpura. Nervous System: Frequent: emotional lability; Infrequent: akathisia, ataxia, buccoglossal syndrome, euphoria, hypertonia, libido increased, myoclonus, paranoid reaction; Rare: delusions. Respiratory System: Rare: larynx edema. Skin and Appendages: Rare: purpuric rash. Special Senses: Frequent: taste perversion; Infrequent: mydriasis. 6.3 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of fluoxetine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is difficult to reliably estimate their frequency or evaluate a causal relationship to drug exposure. Voluntary reports of adverse reactions temporally associated with fluoxetine that have been received since market introduction and that may have no causal relationship with the drug include the following: aplastic anemia, atrial fibrillation, cataract, cerebrovascular accident 1 , cholestatic jaundice, dyskinesia (including, for example, a case of buccal-lingual-masticatory syndrome with involuntary tongue protrusion reported to develop in a 77 year old female after 5 weeks of fluoxetine therapy and which completely resolved over the next few months following drug discontinuation), eosinophilic pneumonia 1 , epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, exfoliative dermatitis, gynecomastia, heart arrest 1 , hepatic failure/necrosis, hyperprolactinemia, hypoglycemia, immune-related hemolytic anemia, kidney failure, movement disorders developing in patients with risk factors including drugs associated with such reactions and worsening of preexisting movement disorders, optic neuritis, pancreatitis 1 , pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary hypertension, QT prolongation, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, thrombocytopenia 1 , thrombocytopenic purpura, ventricular tachycardia (including Torsades de pointes type arrhythmias), and vaginal bleeding, and violent behaviors 1 .

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI): Fluoxetine is contraindicated for use with MAOI’s or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI due to risk of drug interaction. At least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting treatment with an MAOI. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Pimozide: Fluoxetine is contraindicated for use with pimozide due to risk of drug interaction or QT c prolongation. ( 4 , 7.9 ) Thioridazine: Fluoxetine is contraindicated for use with thioridazine due to QT c interval prolongation or potential for elevated thioridazine plasma levels. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine. ( 4 , 7.9 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway. ( 7.9 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued. ( 7.9 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t ½ , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels. ( 7.9 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels. ( 7.9 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity. ( 7.9 ) Serotonergic Drugs: Potential for serotonin syndrome. ( 5.2 , 7.3 ) Triptans: There have been rare post-marketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. ( 5.2 , 7.4 ) Tryptophan: Concomitant use with tryptophan is not recommended. ( 5.2 , 7.5 ). Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding. ( 7.6 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations. ( 7.8 , 7.9 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) There have been reports of serious, sometimes fatal, reactions (including hyperthermia, rigidity, myoclonus, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma) in patients receiving fluoxetine in combination with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and in patients who have recently discontinued fluoxetine and are then started on an MAOI. Some cases presented with features resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Therefore, fluoxetine should not be used in combination with an MAOI, or within a minimum of 14 days of discontinuing therapy with an MAOI [see Contraindications (4) ]. Since fluoxetine and its major metabolite have very long elimination half-lives, at least 5 weeks perhaps longer, especially if fluoxetine has been prescribed chronically and/or at higher doses should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 CNS Acting Drugs Caution is advised if the concomitant administration of fluoxetine and such drugs is required. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including fluoxetine, and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when fluoxetine is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, linezolid (an antibiotic which is a reversible nonselective MAOI), lithium, tramadol or St. John’s Wort [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The concomitant use of fluoxetine with SNRIs, SSRIs or tryptophan is not recommended [see Drug Interactions (7.4) , (7.5) ]. 7.4 Triptans There have been rare post-marketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of fluoxetine with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 7.5 Tryptophan Five patients receiving fluoxetine in combination with tryptophan experienced adverse reactions, including agitation, restlessness and gastrointestinal distress. The concomitant use with tryptophan is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 7.6 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SNRIs or SSRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . 7.7 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies establishing the benefit of the combined use of ECT and fluoxetine. There have been rare reports of prolonged seizures in patients on fluoxetine receiving ECT treatment. 7.8 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma protein, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see C1inical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.9 Potential for Fluoxetine to Affect Other Drugs Pimozide Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. Clinical studies of pimozide with other antidepressants demonstrate an increase in drug interaction or QT c prolongation. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT c prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4) ]. Thioridazine Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4) ]. In a study of 19 healthy male subjects, which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin, a single 25 mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2.4-fold higher C max and a 4.5-fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators. The rate of debrisoquin hydroxylation is felt to depend on the level of CYP2D6 isozyme activity. Thus, this study suggests that drugs which inhibit CYP2D6, such as certain SSRIs, including fluoxetine, will produce elevated plasma levels of thioridazine. Thioridazine administration produces a dose related prolongation of the QT c interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as Torsades de pointes type arrhythmias and sudden death. This risk is expected to increase with fluoxetine-induced inhibition of thioridazine metabolism. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. Coadministration of fluoxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6, including certain antidepressants (e.g., TCAs), antipsychotics (e.g., phenothiazines and most atypicals) and antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide and others) should be approached with caution. Therapy with medications that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP2D6 system and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index (see list below) should be initiated at the low end of the dose range if a patient is receiving fluoxetine concurrently or has taken it in the previous 5 weeks. Thus, his/her dosing requirements resemble those of poor metabolizers. If fluoxetine is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug metabolized by CYP2D6, the need for decreased dose of the original medication should be considered. Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index represent the greatest concern (e.g., flecainide, propafenone, vinblastine and TCAs). Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4) ]. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) In two studies, previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2- to 10-fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination. This influence may persist for 3 weeks or longer after fluoxetine is discontinued. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see C1inical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Benzodiazapines The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see C1inical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels. Antipsychotics Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics. Elevation of blood levels of haloperidol and clozapine has been observed in patients receiving concomitant fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4) ]. Anticonvulsants Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment. Lithium There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine. Cases of lithium toxicity and increased serotonergic effects have been reported. Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly. Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma protein, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin ® , digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see C1inical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine (a CYP3A4 substrate), no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine. Additionally, in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity, to be at least 100 times more potent than fluoxetine or norfluoxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme, including astemizole, cisapride and midazolam. These data indicate that fluoxetine’s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. Olanzapine Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. The magnitude of the impact of this factor is small in comparison to the overall variability between individuals, and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. When using fluoxetine and olanzapine and in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® .

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C In embryo-fetal development studies in rats and rabbits, there was no evidence of teratogenicity following administration of up to 12.5 and 15 mg/kg/day, respectively (1.5 and 3.6 times, respectively, the MRHD of 80 mg on a mg/m 2 basis) throughout organogenesis. However, in rat reproduction studies, an increase in stillborn pups, a decrease in pup weight and an increase in pup deaths during the first 7 days postpartum occurred following maternal exposure to 12 mg/kg/day [1.5 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m 2 basis] during gestation or 7.5 mg/kg/day (0.9 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) during gestation and lactation. There was no evidence of developmental neurotoxicity in the surviving offspring of rats treated with 12 mg/kg/day during gestation. The no-effect dose for rat pup mortality was 5 mg/kg/day (0.6 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). Fluoxetine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Treatment of Pregnant Women during the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to fluoxetine, SNRIs or SSRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support and tube feeding. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery. Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability and constant crying. These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SNRIs and SSRIs or, possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome. Infants exposed to SSRIs in late pregnancy may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). PPHN occurs in 1 to 2 per 1,000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality. In a retrospective case control study of 377 women whose infants were born with PPHN and 836 women whose infants were born healthy, the risk for developing PPHN was approximately 6-fold higher for infants exposed to SSRIs after the 20 th week of gestation compared to infants who had not been exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy. There is currently no corroborative evidence regarding the risk for PPHN following exposure to SSRIs in pregnancy; this is the first study that has investigated the potential risk. The study did not include enough cases with exposure to individual SSRIs to determine if all SSRIs posed similar levels of PPHN risk. When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Physicians should note that in a prospective longitudinal study of 201 women with a history of major depression who were euthymic at the beginning of pregnancy, women who discontinued antidepressant medication during pregnancy were more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continued antidepressant medication. The physician may consider tapering fluoxetine in the third trimester.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Nursing Mothers Because fluoxetine is excreted in human milk, nursing while on fluoxetine is not recommended. In one breast-milk sample, the concentration of fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine was 70.4 ng/mL. The concentration in the mother’s plasma was 295 ng/mL. No adverse effects on the infant were reported. In another case, an infant nursed by a mother on fluoxetine developed crying, sleep disturbance, vomiting and watery stools. The infant’s plasma drug levels were 340 ng/mL of fluoxetine and 208 ng/mL of norfluoxetine on the second day of feeding.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The efficacy of fluoxetine for the treatment of major depressive disorder was demonstrated in two 8- to 9-week placebo-controlled clinical trials with 315 pediatric outpatients ages 8 to < 18 [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The efficacy of fluoxetine for the treatment of OCD was demonstrated in one 13-week placebo-controlled clinical trial with 103 pediatric outpatients ages 7 to < 18 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients < 8 years of age in major depressive disorder and < 7 years of age in OCD have not been established. Fluoxetine pharmacokinetics were evaluated in 21 pediatric patients (ages 6 to < 18) with major depressive disorder or OCD [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The acute adverse reaction profiles observed in the three studies (N = 418 randomized; 228 fluoxetine-treated, 190 placebo-treated) were generally similar to that observed in adult studies with fluoxetine. The longer term adverse reaction profile observed in the 19-week major depressive disorder study (N = 219 randomized; 109 fluoxetine-treated, 110 placebo-treated) was also similar to that observed in adult trials with fluoxetine [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Manic reaction, including mania and hypomania, was reported in six (one mania, five hypomania) out of 228 (2.6%) fluoxetine-treated patients and in 0 out of 190 (0%) placebo-treated patients. Mania/hypomania led to the discontinuation of four (1.8%) fluoxetine-treated patients from the acute phases of the three studies combined. Consequently, regular monitoring for the occurrence of mania/hypomania is recommended. As with other SSRIs, decreased weight gain has been observed in association with the use of fluoxetine in children and adolescent patients. After 19 weeks of treatment in a clinical trial, pediatric subjects treated with fluoxetine gained an average of 1.1 cm less in height and 1.1 kg less in weight than subjects treated with placebo. In addition, fluoxetine treatment was associated with a decrease in alkaline phosphatase levels. The safety of fluoxetine treatment for pediatric patients has not been systematically assessed for chronic treatment longer than several months in duration. In particular, there are no studies that directly evaluate the longer term effects of fluoxetine on the growth, development and maturation of children and adolescent patients. Therefore, height and weight should be monitored periodically in pediatric patients receiving fluoxetine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Fluoxetine is approved for use in pediatric patients with MDD and OCD [see Box Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Anyone considering the use of fluoxetine in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need. Significant toxicity, including myotoxicity, long-term neurobehavioral and reproductive toxicity and impaired bone development, has been observed following exposure of juvenile animals to fluoxetine. Some of these effects occurred at clinically relevant exposures. In a study in which fluoxetine (3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) was orally administered to young rats from weaning (Postnatal Day 21) through adulthood (Day 90), male and female sexual development was delayed at all doses, and growth (body weight gain, femur length) was decreased during the dosing period in animals receiving the highest dose. At the end of the treatment period, serum levels of creatine kinase (marker of muscle damage) were increased at the intermediate and high doses, and abnormal muscle and reproductive organ histopathology (skeletal muscle degeneration and necrosis, testicular degeneration and necrosis, epididymal vacuolation and hypospermia) was observed at the high dose. When animals were evaluated after a recovery period (up to 11 weeks after cessation of dosing), neurobehavioral abnormalities (decreased reactivity at all doses and learning deficit at the high dose) and reproductive functional impairment (decreased mating at all doses and impaired fertility at the high dose) were seen; in addition, testicular and epididymal microscopic lesions and decreased sperm concentrations were found in the high dose group, indicating that the reproductive organ effects seen at the end of treatment were irreversible. The reversibility of fluoxetine-induced muscle damage was not assessed. Adverse effects similar to those observed in rats treated with fluoxetine during the juvenile period have not been reported after administration of fluoxetine to adult animals. Plasma exposures (AUC) to fluoxetine in juvenile rats receiving the low, intermediate and high dose in this study were approximately 0.1 to 0.2, 1 to 2, and 5 to 10 times, respectively, the average exposure in pediatric patients receiving the maximum recommended dose (MRD) of 20 mg/day. Rat exposures to the major metabolite, norfluoxetine, were approximately 0.3 to 0.8, 1 to 8, and 3 to 20 times, respectively, pediatric exposure at the MRD. A specific effect of fluoxetine on bone development has been reported in mice treated with fluoxetine during the juvenile period. When mice were treated with fluoxetine (5 or 20 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) for 4 weeks starting at 4 weeks of age, bone formation was reduced resulting in decreased bone mineral content and density. These doses did not affect overall growth (body weight gain or femoral length). The doses administered to juvenile mice in this study are approximately 0.5 and 2 times the MRD for pediatric patients on a body surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis. In another mouse study, administration of fluoxetine (10 mg/kg intraperitoneal) during early postnatal development (Postnatal Days 4 to 21) produced abnormal emotional behaviors (decreased exploratory behavior in elevated plus-maze, increase shock avoidance latency) in adulthood (12 weeks of age). The dose used in this study is approximately equal to the pediatric MRD on a mg/m 2 basis. Because of the early dosing period in this study, the significance of these findings to the approved pediatric use in humans is uncertain. Safety and effectiveness of fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use U.S. fluoxetine clinical trials included 687 patients > 65 years of age and 93 patients > 75 years of age. The efficacy in geriatric patients has been established [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. For pharmacokinetic information in geriatric patients, [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. SNRIs and SSRIs, including fluoxetine, have been associated with cases of clinically significant hyponatremia in elderly patients, who may be at greater risk for this adverse reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Clinical studies of olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination did not include sufficient numbers of patients > 65 years of age to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE 10.1 Human Experience Worldwide exposure to fluoxetine hydrochloride is estimated to be over 38 million patients (circa 1999). Of the 1,578 cases of overdose involving fluoxetine hydrochloride, alone or with other drugs, reported from this population, there were 195 deaths. Among 633 adult patients who overdosed on fluoxetine hydrochloride alone, 34 resulted in a fatal outcome, 378 completely recovered and 15 patients experienced sequelae after overdosage, including abnormal accommodation, abnormal gait, confusion, unresponsiveness, nervousness, pulmonary dysfunction, vertigo, tremor, elevated blood pressure, impotence, movement disorder and hypomania. The remaining 206 patients had an unknown outcome. The most common signs and symptoms associated with nonfatal overdosage were seizures, somnolence, nausea, tachycardia and vomiting. The largest known ingestion of fluoxetine hydrochloride in adult patients was 8 grams in a patient who took fluoxetine alone and who subsequently recovered. However, in an adult patient who took fluoxetine alone, an ingestion as low as 520 mg has been associated with lethal outcome, but causality has not been established. Among pediatric patients (ages 3 months to 17 years), there were 156 cases of overdose involving fluoxetine alone or in combination with other drugs. Six patients died, 127 patients completely recovered, one patient experienced renal failure and 22 patients had an unknown outcome. One of the six fatalities was a 9 year old boy who had a history of OCD, Tourette’s syndrome with tics, attention deficit disorder and fetal alcohol syndrome. He had been receiving 100 mg of fluoxetine daily for 6 months in addition to clonidine, methylphenidate and promethazine. Mixed-drug ingestion or other methods of suicide complicated all six overdoses in children that resulted in fatalities. The largest ingestion in pediatric patients was 3 grams which was nonlethal. Other important adverse reactions reported with fluoxetine overdose (single or multiple drugs) include coma, delirium, ECG abnormalities (such as QT interval prolongation and ventricular tachycardia, including Torsades de pointes type arrhythmias), hypotension, mania, neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions, pyrexia, stupor and syncope. 10.2 Animal Experience Studies in animals do not provide precise or necessarily valid information about the treatment of human overdose. However, animal experiments can provide useful insights into possible treatment strategies. The oral median lethal dose in rats and mice was found to be 452 and 248 mg/kg, respectively. Acute high oral doses produced hyperirritability and convulsions in several animal species. Among six dogs purposely overdosed with oral fluoxetine, five experienced grand mal seizures. Seizures stopped immediately upon the bolus intravenous administration of a standard veterinary dose of diazepam. In this short-term study, the lowest plasma concentration at which a seizure occurred was only twice the maximum plasma concentration seen in humans taking 80 mg/day, chronically. In a separate single-dose study, the ECG of dogs given high doses did not reveal prolongation of the PR, QRS or QT intervals. Tachycardia and an increase in blood pressure were observed. Consequently, the value of the ECG in predicting cardiac toxicity is unknown. Nonetheless, the ECG should ordinarily be monitored in cases of human overdose [see Overdosage (10.3) ]. 10.3 Management of Overdose Treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Ensure an adequate airway, oxygenation and ventilation. Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs. General supportive and symptomatic measures are also recommended. Induction of emesis is not recommended. Gastric lavage with a large-bore orogastric tube with appropriate airway protection, if needed, may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic patients. Activated charcoal should be administered. Due to the large volume of distribution of this drug, forced diuresis, dialysis, hemoperfusion and exchange transfusion are unlikely to be of benefit. No specific antidotes for fluoxetine are known. A specific caution involves patients who are taking or have recently taken fluoxetine and might ingest excessive quantities of a TCA. In such a case, accumulation of the parent tricyclic and/or an active metabolite may increase the possibility of clinically significant sequelae and extend the time needed for close medical observation [see Drug Interactions (7. 9) ]. Based on experience in animals, which may not be relevant to humans, fluoxetine-induced seizures that fail to remit spontaneously may respond to diazepam. In managing overdosage, consider the possibility of multiple drug involvement. The physician should consider contacting a poison control center for additional information on the treatment of any overdose. Telephone numbers for certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians’ Desk Reference (PDR). For specific information about overdosage with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Overdosage section of the Symbyax ® package insert.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect or predict the rates observed in practice. Multiple doses of fluoxetine had been administered to 10,782 patients with various diagnoses in U.S. clinical trials as of May 8, 1995. In addition, there have been 425 patients administered fluoxetine in panic clinical trials. Adverse reactions were recorded by clinical investigators using descriptive terminology of their own choosing. Consequently, it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse reactions without first grouping similar types of reactions into a limited (i.e., reduced) number of standardized reaction categories. In the tables and tabulations that follow, COSTART Dictionary terminology has been used to classify reported adverse reactions. The stated frequencies represent the proportion of individuals who experienced, at least once, a treatment-emergent adverse reaction of the type listed. A reaction was considered treatment-emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. It is important to emphasize that reactions reported during therapy were not necessarily caused by it. The prescriber should be aware that the figures in the tables and tabulations cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses and investigators. The cited figures, however, do provide the prescribing physician with some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the side effect incidence rate in the population studied. Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (excluding data from extensions of trials) Table 3 enumerates the most common treatment-emergent adverse reactions associated with the use of fluoxetine (incidence of at least 5% for fluoxetine and at least twice that for placebo within at least one of the indications) for the treatment of major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia in U.S. controlled clinical trials and panic disorder in U.S. plus non-U.S. controlled trials. Table 5 enumerates treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in 2% or more patients treated with fluoxetine and with incidence greater than placebo who participated in U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia controlled clinical trials and U.S. plus non-U.S. panic disorder controlled clinical trials. Table 4 provides combined data for the pool of studies that are provided separately by indication in Table 3. TABLE 3: Most Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Incidence less than 1% Includes U.S. data for major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. data for panic disorder clinical trials. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Major Depressive Disorder OCD Bulimia Panic Disorder Body System/Adverse Reaction Fluoxetine (N=1,728) Placebo (N=975) Fluoxetine (N=266) Placebo (N=89) Fluoxetine (N=450) Placebo (N=267) Fluoxetine (N=425) Placebo (N=342) Body as a Whole Asthenia 9 5 15 11 21 9 7 7 Flu syndrome 3 4 10 7 8 3 5 5 Cardiovascular System Vasodilatation 3 2 5 -- 2 1 1 -- Digestive System Nausea 21 9 26 13 29 11 12 7 Diarrhea 12 8 18 13 8 6 9 4 Anorexia 11 2 17 10 8 4 4 1 Dry mouth 10 7 12 3 9 6 4 4 Dyspepsia 7 5 10 4 10 6 6 2 Nervous System Insomnia 16 9 28 22 33 13 10 7 Anxiety 12 7 14 7 15 9 6 2 Nervousness 14 9 14 15 11 5 8 6 Somnolence 13 6 17 7 13 5 5 2 Tremor 10 3 9 1 13 1 3 1 Libido decreased 3 -- 11 2 5 1 1 2 Abnormal dreams 1 1 5 2 5 3 1 1 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 3 3 11 9 10 5 3 3 Sinusitis 1 4 5 2 6 4 2 3 Yawn -- -- 7 -- 11 -- 1 -- Skin and Appendages Sweating 8 3 7 -- 8 3 2 2 Rash 4 3 6 3 4 4 2 2 Urogenital System Impotence Denominator used was for males only (N = 690 fluoxetine major depressive disorder; N = 410 placebo major depressive disorder; N = 116 fluoxetine OCD; N = 43 placebo OCD; N = 4 fluoxetine bulimia; N = 1 placebo bulimia; N = 162 fluoxetine panic; N = 121 placebo panic). 2 -- -- -- 7 -- 1 -- Abnormal ejaculation ‡ -- -- 7 -- 7 -- 2 1 TABLE 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Incidence less than 1%. Includes U.S. data for major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. data for panic disorder clinical trials. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Combined Body System/Adverse Reaction Fluoxetine (N = 2,869) Placebo (N = 1,673) Body as a Whole Headache 21 19 Asthenia 11 6 Flu syndrome 5 4 Fever 2 1 Cardiovascular System Vasodilatation 2 1 Digestive System Nausea 22 9 Diarrhea 11 7 Anorexia 10 3 Dry mouth 9 6 Dyspepsia 8 4 Constipation 5 4 Flatulence 3 2 Vomiting 3 2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Weight loss 2 1 Nervous System Insomnia 19 10 Nervousness 13 8 Anxiety 12 6 Somnolence 12 5 Dizziness 9 6 Tremor 9 2 Libido decreased 4 1 Thinking abnormal 2 1 Respiratory System Yawn 3 -- Skin and Appendages Sweating 7 3 Rash 4 3 Pruritus 3 2 Special Senses Abnormal vision 2 1 Associated with Discontinuation in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (excluding data from extensions of trials) Table 5 lists the adverse reactions associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine treatment (incidence at least twice that for placebo and at least 1% for fluoxetine in clinical trials collecting only a primary reaction associated with discontinuation) in major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. panic disorder clinical trials. TABLE 5: Most Common Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation in Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Includes U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD, bulimia and panic disorder clinical trials, plus non-U.S. panic disorder clinical trials. Major Depressive Disorder, OCD, Bulimia and Panic Disorder Combined (N = 1,533) Major Depressive Disorder (N = 392) OCD (N = 266) Bulimia (N = 450) Panic Disorder (N = 425) Anxiety (1%) -- Anxiety (2%) -- Anxiety (2%) -- -- -- Insomnia (2%) -- -- Nervousness (1%) -- -- Nervousness (1%) -- -- Rash (1%) -- -- Other Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients (children and adolescents) Treatment-emergent adverse reactions were collected in 322 pediatric patients (180 fluoxetine-treated, 142 placebo-treated). The overall profile of adverse reactions was generally similar to that seen in adult studies, as shown in Tables 4 and 5. However, the following adverse reactions (excluding those which appear in the body or footnotes of Tables 4 and 5 and those for which the COSTART terms were uninformative or misleading) were reported at an incidence of at least 2% for fluoxetine and greater than placebo: thirst, hyperkinesia, agitation, personality disorder, epistaxis, urinary frequency and menorrhagia. The most common adverse reaction (incidence at least 1% for fluoxetine and greater than placebo) associated with discontinuation in three pediatric placebo-controlled trials (N = 418 randomized; 228 fluoxetine-treated; 190 placebo-treated) was mania/hypomania (1.8% for fluoxetine-treated, 0% for placebo-treated). In these clinical trials, only a primary reaction associated with discontinuation was collected. Male and Female Sexual Dysfunction with SSRIs Although changes in sexual desire, sexual performance and sexual satisfaction often occur as manifestations of a psychiatric disorder, they may also be a consequence of pharmacologic treatment. In particular, some evidence suggests that SSRIs can cause such untoward sexual experiences. Reliable estimates of the incidence and severity of untoward experiences involving sexual desire, performance and satisfaction are difficult to obtain, however, in part because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss them. Accordingly, estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance, cited in product labeling, are likely to underestimate their actual incidence. In patients enrolled in U.S. major depressive disorder, OCD and bulimia placebo-controlled clinical trials, decreased libido was the only sexual side effect reported by at least 2% of patients taking fluoxetine (4% fluoxetine, < 1% placebo). There have been spontaneous reports in women taking fluoxetine of orgasmic dysfunction, including anorgasmia. There are no adequate and well controlled studies examining sexual dysfunction with fluoxetine treatment. Priapism has been reported with all SSRIs. While it is difficult to know the precise risk of sexual dysfunction associated with the use of SSRIs, physicians should routinely inquire about such possible side effects.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from light. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure. PHARMACIST: Dispense a Medication Guide with each prescription.

SPL TEXT:
Fluoxetine fluoxetine hydrochloride FLUOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE FLUOXETINE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE GELATIN TITANIUM DIOXIDE FD&C RED NO. 40 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C BLUE NO. 2 PROPYLENE GLYCOL SHELLAC white opaque flesh opaque MYLAN;4210 Fluoxetine fluoxetine hydrochloride FLUOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE FLUOXETINE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE GELATIN TITANIUM DIOXIDE FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C RED NO. 40 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FD&C BLUE NO. 2 PROPYLENE GLYCOL SHELLAC light turquoise blue opaque flesh opaque MYLAN;4220 Fluoxetine fluoxetine hydrochloride FLUOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE FLUOXETINE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE STARCH, CORN SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE GELATIN TITANIUM DIOXIDE FD&C BLUE NO. 1 FD&C RED NO. 3 FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FD&C RED NO. 40 PROPYLENE GLYCOL SHELLAC light blue opaque white opaque MYLAN;4350