DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Meloxicam is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Each yellow meloxicam tablet contains 7.5 mg or 15 mg meloxicam for oral administration. Meloxicam is chemically designated as 4-hydroxy-2-methyl- N -(5-methyl-2-thiazolyl)-2 H -1,2-benzothiazine-3-carboxamide-1,1-dioxide. The molecular weight is 351.4. Its empirical formula is C 14 H 13 N 3 O 4 S 2 and it has the following structural formula. Meloxicam, USP is a pale yellow powder, practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble in acetone, soluble in dimethylformamide, very slightly soluble in ethanol (96 %) and in methanol. Meloxicam has an apparent partition coefficient (log P) app = 0.1 in n -octanol/buffer pH 7.4. Meloxicam has pKa values of 1.1 and 4.2. Each meloxicam tablet, USP intended for oral administration contains 7.5 mg or 15 mg of meloxicam. In addition, each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone and sodium citrate dihydrate. structured product formula for meloxicam

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Meloxicam has analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. The mechanism of action of meloxicam, like that of other NSAIDs, is not completely understood but involves inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2). Meloxicam is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis in vitro . Meloxicam concentrations reached during therapy have produced in vivo effects. Prostaglandins sensitize afferent nerves and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain in animal models. Prostaglandins are mediators of inflammation. Because meloxicam is an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, its mode of action may be due to a decrease of prostaglandins in peripheral tissues. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute bioavailability of meloxicam capsules was 89% following a single oral dose of 30 mg compared with 30 mg IV bolus injection. Following single intravenous doses, dose-proportional pharmacokinetics were shown in the range of 5 mg to 60 mg. After multiple oral doses the pharmacokinetics of meloxicam capsules were dose-proportional over the range of 7.5 mg to 15 mg. Mean Cmax was achieved within four to five hours after a 7.5 mg meloxicam tablet was taken under fasted conditions, indicating a prolonged drug absorption. With multiple dosing, steady-state concentrations were reached by Day 5. A second meloxicam concentration peak occurs around 12 to 14 hours post-dose suggesting biliary recycling. Meloxicam oral suspension doses of 7.5 mg/5 mL and 15 mg/10 mL have been found to be bioequivalent to meloxicam 7.5 mg and 15 mg capsules, respectively. Meloxicam capsules have been shown to be bioequivalent to meloxicam tablets. Table 4Single Dose and Steady-State Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Oral 7.5 mg and 15 mg Meloxicam (Mean and % CV) 1 1 The parameter values in the table are from various studies 2 not under high fat conditions 3 Meloxicam tablets 4 V z /f = Dose/(AUC•K e l ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters (% CV ) Steady State Single Dose Healthy male adults ( Fed ) 2 Elderly males ( Fed ) 2 Elderly females ( Fed ) 2 Renal failure ( Fasted ) Hepatic insufficiency ( Fasted ) 7 . 5 mg 3 tablets 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules N 18 5 8 12 12 C m a x [µg/mL] 1.05 (20) 2.3 (59) 3.2 (24) 0.59 (36) 0.84 (29) t m a x [h] 4.9 (8) 5 (12) 6 (27) 4 (65) 10 (87) t ½ [h] 20.1 (29) 21 (34) 24 (34) 18 (46) 16 (29) CL/f {mL/min} 8.8 (29) 9.9 (76) 5.1 (22) 19 (43) 11 (44) V z /f 4 [L] 14.7(32) 15 (42) 10 (30) 26 (44) 14 (29) Food and Antacid Effects Administration of meloxicam capsules following a high fat breakfast (75 g of fat) resulted in mean peak drug levels (i.e., Cmax) being increased by approximately 22% while the extent of absorption (AUC) was unchanged. The time to maximum concentration (Tmax) was achieved between 5 and 6 hours. In comparison, neither the AUC nor the Cmax values for meloxicam suspension were affected following a similar high fat meal, while mean Tmax values were increased to approximately 7 hours. No pharmacokinetic interaction was detected with concomitant administration of antacids. Based on these results, meloxicam can be administered without regard to timing of meals or concomitant administration of antacids. Distribution The mean volume of distribution (Vss) of meloxicam is approximately 10 L. Meloxicam is ~99.4% bound to human plasma proteins (primarily albumin) within the therapeutic dose range. The fraction of protein binding is independent of drug concentration, over the clinically relevant concentration range, but decreases to ~99% in patients with renal disease. Meloxicam penetration into human red blood cells, after oral dosing, is less than 10%. Following a radiolabeled dose, over 90% of the radioactivity detected in the plasma was present as unchanged meloxicam. Meloxicam concentrations in synovial fluid, after a single oral dose, range from 40% to 50% of those in plasma. The free fraction in synovial fluid is 2.5 times higher than in plasma, due to the lower albumin content in synovial fluid as compared to plasma. The significance of this penetration is unknown. Elimination Metabolism Meloxicam is extensively metabolized in the liver. Meloxicam metabolites include 5'-carboxy meloxicam (60% of dose), from P-450 mediated metabolism formed by oxidation of an intermediate metabolite 5'-hydroxymethyl meloxicam which is also excreted to a lesser extent (9% of dose). In vitro studies indicate that CYP2C9 (cytochrome P450 metabolizing enzyme) plays an important role in this metabolic pathway with a minor contribution of the CYP3A4 isozyme. Patients' peroxidase activity is probably responsible for the other two metabolites which account for 16% and 4% of the administered dose, respectively. All the four metabolites are not known to have any in vivo pharmacological activity. Excretion Meloxicam excretion is predominantly in the form of metabolites, and occurs to equal extents in the urine and feces. Only traces of the unchanged parent compound are excreted in the urine (0.2%) and feces (1.6%). The extent of the urinary excretion was confirmed for unlabeled multiple 7.5 mg doses: 0.5%, 6%, and 13% of the dose were found in urine in the form of meloxicam, and the 5'- hydroxymethyl and 5'-carboxy metabolites, respectively. There is significant biliary and/or enteral secretion of the drug. This was demonstrated when oral administration of cholestyramine following a single IV dose of meloxicam decreased the AUC of meloxicam by 50%. The mean elimination half-life (t1/2) ranges from 15 hours to 20 hours. The elimination half-life is constant across dose levels indicating linear metabolism within the therapeutic dose range. Plasma clearance ranges from 7 to 9 mL/min. Specific Populations Pediatric After single (0.25 mg/kg) dose administration and after achieving steady state (0.375 mg/kg/day), there was a general trend of approximately 30% lower exposure in younger patients (2 to 6 years old) as compared to the older patients (7 to 16 years old). The older patients had meloxicam exposures similar (single dose) or slightly reduced (steady state) to those in the adult patients, when using AUC values normalized to a dose of 0.25 mg/kg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. The meloxicam mean (SD) elimination half-life was 15.2 (10.1) and 13.0 hours (3.0) for the 2 to 6 year old patients, and 7 to 16 year old patients, respectively. In a covariate analysis, utilizing population pharmacokinetics body-weight, but not age, was the single predictive covariate for differences in the meloxicam apparent oral plasma clearance. The body-weight normalized apparent oral clearance values were adequate predictors of meloxicam exposure in pediatric patients. The pharmacokinetics of meloxicam in pediatric patients under 2 years of age have not been investigated. Geriatric Elderly males (≥ 65 years of age) exhibited meloxicam plasma concentrations and steady-state pharmacokinetics similar to young males. Elderly females ( ≥ 65 years of age) had a 47% higher AUCss and 32% higher Cmax,ss as compared to younger females (≤ 55 years of age) after body weight normalization. Despite the increased total concentrations in the elderly females, the adverse event profile was comparable for both elderly patient populations. A smaller free fraction was found in elderly female patients in comparison to elderly male patients. Sex Young females exhibited slightly lower plasma concentrations relative to young males. After single doses of 7.5 mg meloxicam, the mean elimination half-life was 19.5 hours for the female group as compared to 23.4 hours for the male group. At steady state, the data were similar (17.9 hours vs 21.4 hours). This pharmacokinetic difference due to gender is likely to be of little clinical importance. There was linearity of pharmacokinetics and no appreciable difference in the Cmax or Tmax across genders. Hepatic Impairment Following a single 15 mg dose of meloxicam there was no marked difference in plasma concentrations in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class I) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class II) hepatic impairment compared to healthy volunteers. Protein binding of meloxicam was not affected by hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class III) have not been adequately studied [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. Renal Impairment Meloxicam pharmacokinetics have been investigated in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. Total drug plasma concentrations of meloxicam decreased and total clearance of meloxicam increased with the degree of renal impairment while free AUC values were similar in all groups. The higher meloxicam clearance in subjects with renal impairment may be due to increased fraction of unbound meloxicam which is available for hepatic metabolism and subsequent excretion. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Patients with severe renal impairment have not been adequately studied. The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ]. Hemodialysis Following a single dose of meloxicam, the free Cmax plasma concentrations were higher in patients with renal failure on chronic hemodialysis (1% free fraction) in comparison to healthy volunteers (0.3% free fraction). Hemodialysis did not lower the total drug concentration in plasma; therefore, additional doses are not necessary after hemodialysis. Meloxicam is not dialyzable [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ]. Drug Interaction Studies Aspirin: When NSAIDs were administered with aspirin, the protein binding of NSAIDs were reduced, although the clearance of free NSAID was not altered. When meloxicam is administered with aspirin (1000 mg three times daily) to healthy volunteers, it tended to increase the AUC (10%) and Cmax (24%) of meloxicam. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions of NSAIDs with aspirin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Cholestyramine Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50%. This resulted in a decrease in t 1/2 , from 19.2 hours to 12.5 hours, and a 35% reduction in AUC. This suggests the existence of a recirculation pathway for meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract. The clinical relevance of this interaction has not been established. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of 200 mg cimetidine four times daily did not alter the single-dose pharmacokinetics of 30 mg meloxicam. Digoxin Meloxicam 15 mg once daily for 7 days did not alter the plasma concentration profile of digoxin after β-acetyldigoxin administration for 7 days at clinical doses. In vitro testing found no protein binding drug interaction between digoxin and meloxicam. Lithium In a study conducted in healthy subjects, mean pre-dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21% in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg QD every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Methotrexate A study in 13 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients evaluated the effects of multiple doses of meloxicam on the pharmacokinetics of methotrexate taken once weekly. Meloxicam did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of single doses of methotrexate. In vitro , methotrexate did not displace meloxicam from its human serum binding sites [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Warfarin The effect of meloxicam on the anticoagulant effect of warfarin was studied in a group of healthy subjects receiving daily doses of warfarin that produced an INR (International Normalized Ratio) between 1.2 and 1.8. In these subjects, meloxicam did not alter warfarin pharmacokinetics and the average anticoagulant effect of warfarin as determined by prothrombin time. However, one subject showed an increase in INR from 1.5 to 2.1. Caution should be used when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ].

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Meloxicam has analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. The mechanism of action of meloxicam, like that of other NSAIDs, is not completely understood but involves inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2). Meloxicam is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis in vitro . Meloxicam concentrations reached during therapy have produced in vivo effects. Prostaglandins sensitize afferent nerves and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain in animal models. Prostaglandins are mediators of inflammation. Because meloxicam is an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, its mode of action may be due to a decrease of prostaglandins in peripheral tissues.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam Tablets are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥ 60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ].

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS WARNING: RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning . Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction and stroke, which can be fatal. This risk may occur early in treatment and may increase with duration of use ( 5.1 ) Meloxicam is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery ( 4 , 5.1 ) NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients and patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding are at greater risk for serious GI events ( 5.2 ) Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction and stroke, which can be fatal. This risk may occur early in treatment and may increase with duration of use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Meloxicam is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients and patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding are at greater risk for serious GI events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ].

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): ο Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily ο Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA ( 2.4 ): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥ 60 kg Meloxicam tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablets are 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Meloxicam tablets may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily. 2.4 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course For the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily in children who weigh ≥60 kg. There was no additional benefit demonstrated by increasing the dose above 7.5 mg in clinical trials. Meloxicam tablets should not be used in children who weigh <60 kg. 2.5 Renal Impairment The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam is 7.5 mg per day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Meloxicam Meloxicam tablets have not shown equivalent systemic exposure to other approved formulations of oral meloxicam. Therefore, meloxicam tablets are not interchangeable with other formulations of oral meloxicam product even if the total milligram strength is the same. Do not substitute similar dose strengths of meloxicam tablets with other formulations of oral meloxicam product.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common (≥5% and greater than placebo) adverse events in adults are diarrhea, upper respiratory tract infections, dyspepsia, and influenza-like symptoms (6.1) Adverse events observed in pediatric studies were similar in nature to the adult clinical trial experience (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA) Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Heart Failure and Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Anaphylactic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ] Serious Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ] Hematologic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ] 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The meloxicam Phase 2/3 clinical trial database includes 10,122 OA patients and 1012 RA patients treated with meloxicam 7.5 mg/day, 3505 OA patients and 1351 RA patients treated with meloxicam 15 mg/day. Meloxicam at these doses was administered to 661 patients for at least 6 months and to 312 patients for at least one year. Approximately 10,500 of these patients were treated in ten placebo- and/or active-controlled osteoarthritis trials and 2363 of these patients were treated in ten placebo-and/or active-controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials. Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events were the most frequently reported adverse events in all treatment groups across meloxicam trials. A 12-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial was conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo and with an active control. Two 12-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized trials were conducted in patients with rheumatoid arthritis to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo. Table 1a depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥2% of the meloxicam treatment groups in a 12-week placebo-and active-controlled osteoarthritis trial. Table 1b depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥2% of the meloxicam treatment groups in two 12-week placebo-controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials. Table 1a Adverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of Meloxicam Patients in a 12-Week Osteoarthritis Placebo- and Active-Controlled Trial Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Diclofenac 100 mg daily 1 WHO preferred terms edema, edema dependent, edema peripheral, and edema legs combined 2 WHO preferred terms rash, rash erythematous, and rash maculo-papular combined No . of Patients 157 154 156 153 Gastrointestinal 17.2 20.1 17.3 28.1 Abdominal pain 2.5 1.9 2.6 1.3 Diarrhea 3.8 7.8 3.2 9.2 Dyspepsia 4.5 4.5 4.5 6.5 Flatulence 4.5 3.2 3.2 3.9 Nausea 3.2 3.9 3.8 7.2 Body as a Whole Accident household 1.9 4.5 3.2 2.6 Edema 1 2.5 1.9 4.5 3.3 Fall 0.6 2.6 0.0 1.3 Influenza-like symptoms 5.1 4.5 5.8 2.6 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 3.2 2.6 3.8 2.0 Headache 10.2 7.8 8.3 5.9 Respiratory Pharyngitis 1.3 0.6 3.2 1.3 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 1.9 3.2 1.9 3.3 Skin Rash 2 2.5 2.6 0.6 2.0 Table 1b Adverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of MELOXICAM Patients in two 12-Week Rheumatoid Arthritis Placebo-Controlled Trials Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily 1 MedDRA high level term (preferred terms): dyspeptic signs and symptoms (dyspepsia, dyspepsia aggravated, eructation, gastrointestinal irritation), upper respiratory tract infections-pathogen unspecified (laryngitis NOS, pharyngitis NOS, sinusitis NOS), joint related signs and symptoms (arthralgia, arthralgia aggravated, joint crepitation, joint effusion, joint swelling) 2 MedDRA preferred term: nausea, abdominal pain NOS, influenza-like illness, headaches NOS, and rash NOS No . of Patients 469 481 477 Gastrointestinal Disorders 14.1 18.9 16.8 Abdominal pain NOS 2 0.6 2.9 2.3 Dyspeptic signs and symptoms 1 3.8 5.8 4.0 Nausea 2 2.6 3.3 3.8 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like illness 2 2.1 2.9 2.3 Infection and Infestations Upper respiratory tract infections-pathogen class unspecified 1 4.1 7.0 6.5 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Joint related signs and symptoms 1 1.9 1.5 2.3 Nervous System Disorders Headaches NOS 2 6.4 6.4 5.5 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash NOS 2 1.7 1.0 2.1 The adverse events that occurred with meloxicam in ≥2% of patients treated short-term (4 to 6 weeks) and long-term (6 months) in active-controlled osteoarthritis trials are presented in Table 2 Table 2Adverse Events (%) Occurring in ≥ 2% of Meloxicam Patients in 4 to 6 Weeksand 6 Month Active-Controlled Osteoarthritis Trials 4 to 6 Weeks Controlled Trials 6 Month Controlled Trials Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily No . of Patients 8955 256 169 306 Gastrointestinal 11.8 18.0 26.6 24.2 Abdominal pain 2.7 2.3 4.7 2.9 Constipation 0.8 1.2 1.8 2.6 Diarrhea 1.9 2.7 5.9 2.6 Dyspepsia 3.8 7.4 8.9 9.5 Flatulence 0.5 0.4 3.0 2.6 Nausea 2.4 4.7 4.7 7.2 Vomiting 0.6 0.8 1.8 2.6 Body as a Whole Accident household 0.0 0.0 0.6 2.9 Edema WHO preferred terms edema, edema dependent, edema peripheral, and edema legs combined 0.6 2.0 2.4 1.6 Pain 0.9 2.0 3.6 5.2 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 1.1 1.6 2.4 2.6 Headache 2.4 2.7 3.6 2.6 Hematologic Anemia 0.1 0.0 4.1 2.9 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 0.5 0.0 5.3 1.3 Back pain 0.5 0.4 3.0 0.7 Psychiatric Insomnia 0.4 0.0 3.6 1.6 Respiratory Coughing 0.2 0.8 2.4 1.0 Upper respiratory tract infection 0.2 0.0 8.3 7.5 Skin Pruritus 0.4 1.2 2.4 0.0 Rash WHO preferred terms rash, rash erythematous, and rash maculo-papular combined 0.3 1.2 3.0 1.3 Urinary Micturition frequency 0.1 0.4 2.4 1.3 Urinary tract infection 0.3 0.4 4.7 6.9 Higher doses of meloxicam (22.5 mg and greater) have been associated with an increased risk of serious GI events; therefore, the daily dose of meloxicam should not exceed 15 mg. Pediatrics Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Three hundred and eighty-seven patients with pauciarticular and polyarticular course JRA were exposed to meloxicam with doses ranging from 0.125 to 0.375 mg/kg per day in three clinical trials. These studies consisted of two 12-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized trials (one with a 12-week open-label extension and one with a 40-week extension) and one 1-year open-label PK study. The adverse events observed in these pediatric studies with meloxicam were similar in nature to the adult clinical trial experience, although there were differences in frequency. In particular, the following most common adverse events, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and pyrexia, were more common in the pediatric than in the adult trials. Rash was reported in seven (<2%) patients receiving meloxicam. No unexpected adverse events were identified during the course of the trials. The adverse events did not demonstrate an age or gender-specific subgroup effect. The following is a list of adverse drug reactions occurring in <2% of patients receiving meloxicam in clinical trials involving approximately 16,200 patients. Body as a Whole allergic reaction, face edema, fatigue, fever, hot flushes, malaise, syncope, weight decrease, weight increase Cardiovascular angina pectoris, cardiac failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, vasculitis Central and Peripheral Nervous System convulsions, paresthesia, tremor, vertigo Gastrointestinal colitis, dry mouth, duodenal ulcer, eructation, esophagitis, gastric ulcer, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hematemesis, hemorrhagic duodenal ulcer, hemorrhagic gastric ulcer, intestinal perforation, melena, pancreatitis, perforated duodenal ulcer, perforated gastric ulcer, stomatitis ulcerative Heart Rate and Rhythm arrhythmia, palpitation, tachycardia Hematologic leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia Liver and Biliary System ALT increased, AST increased, bilirubinemia, GGT increased, hepatitis Metabolic and Nutritional dehydration Psychiatric abnormal dreaming , anxiety, appetite increased, confusion, depression, nervousness, somnolence Respiratory asthma, bronchospasm, dyspnea Skin and Appendages alopecia, angioedema, bullous eruption, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, sweating increased, urticaria Special Senses abnormal vision, conjunctivitis, taste perversion, tinnitus Urinary System albuminuria, BUN increased, creatinine increased, hematuria, renal failure 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of meloxicam. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Decisions about whether to include an adverse event from spontaneous reports in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors: (1) seriousness of the event, (2) number of reports, or (3) strength of causal relationship to the drug. Adverse reactions reported in worldwide post marketing experience or the literature include: acute urinary retention; agranulocytosis; alterations in mood (such as mood elevation); anaphylactoid reactions including shock; erythema multiforme; exfoliative dermatitis; interstitial nephritis; jaundice; liver failure; Stevens-Johnson syndrome toxic epidermal necrolysis, and infertility female.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of meloxicam and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with meloxicam may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with meloxicam in elderly, volumedepleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with meloxicam. See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 , 5.11 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Table 3 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Meloxicam Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact : Meloxicam and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of meloxicam and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention : Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 )]. Aspirin Clinical Impact : Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 )]. Intervention : Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 )]. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors , Angiotensin Receptor Blockers , or Beta - Blockers Clinical Impact : NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 )]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact : Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. However, studies with furosemide agents and meloxicam have not demonstrated a reduction in natriuretic effect. Furosemide single and multiple dose pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are not affected by multiple doses of meloxicam. Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 )]. Lithium Clinical Impact : NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 )]. Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 )]. Intervention : The concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Patients taking meloxicam should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. In patients with creatinine clearance below 45 mL/min, the concomitant administration of meloxicam with pemetrexed is not recommended.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including meloxicam, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of meloxicam at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Meloxicam is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ].

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Females Based on the mechanism of action, the use of prostaglandin-mediated NSAIDs, including meloxicam, may delay or prevent rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility in some women. Published animal studies have shown that administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors has the potential to disrupt prostaglandin-mediated follicular rupture required for ovulation. Small studies in women treated with NSAIDs have also shown a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs, including meloxicam, in women who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing investigation of infertility.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of meloxicam in pediatric JRA patients from 2 to 17 years of age has been evaluated in three clinical trials [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )].

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Elderly patients, compared to younger patients, are at greater risk for NSAID associated serious cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and/or renal adverse reactions. If the anticipated benefit for the elderly patient outweighs these potential risks, start dosing at the low end of the dosing range, and monitor patients for adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.6 , 5.13 ) ].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms following acute NSAID overdosages have been typically limited to lethargy, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, and epigastric pain, which have been generally reversible with supportive care. Gastrointestinal bleeding has occurred. Hypertension, acute renal failure, respiratory depression, and coma have occurred, but were rare [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 , 5.6 ) ]. Manage patients with symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdosage. There are no specific antidotes. Consider emesis and/or activated charcoal (60 to 100 grams in adults, 1 to 2 grams per kg of body weight in pediatric patients) and/or osmotic cathartic in symptomatic patients seen within four hours of ingestion or in patients with a large overdosage (5 to 10 times the recommended dosage). Forced diuresis, alkalinization of urine, hemodialysis, or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding. There is limited experience with meloxicam overdosage. Cholestyramine is known to accelerate the clearance of meloxicam. Accelerated removal of meloxicam by 4 g oral doses of cholestyramine given three times a day was demonstrated in a clinical trial. Administration of cholestyramine may be useful following an overdosage. For additional information about overdosage treatment, call a poison control center (1-800-222-1222).

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee and hip was evaluated in a 12-week, double-blind, controlled trial. meloxicam (3.75 mg, 7.5 mg, and 15 mg daily) was compared to placebo. The four primary endpoints were investigator’s global assessment, patient global assessment, patient pain assessment, and total WOMAC score (a self-administered questionnaire addressing pain, function, and stiffness). Patients on meloxicam 7.5 mg daily and meloxicam 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in each of these endpoints compared with placebo. The use of meloxicam for the management of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis was evaluated in six double-blind, active-controlled trials outside the U.S. ranging from 4 weeks’ to 6 months’ duration. In these trials, the efficacy of meloxicam, in doses of 7.5 mg/day and 15 mg/day, was comparable to piroxicam 20 mg/day and diclofenac SR 100 mg/day and consistent with the efficacy seen in the U.S. trial. The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis was evaluated in a 12-week, double-blind, controlled multinational trial. meloxicam (7.5 mg, 15 mg, and 22.5 mg daily) was compared to placebo. The primary endpoint in this study was the ACR20 response rate, a composite measure of clinical, laboratory, and functional measures of RA response. Patients receiving meloxicam 7.5 mg and 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in the primary endpoint compared with placebo. No incremental benefit was observed with the 22.5 mg dose compared to the 15 mg dose. 14.2 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older was evaluated in two 12-week, double-blind, parallel-arm, active-controlled trials. Both studies included three arms: naproxen and two doses of meloxicam. In both studies, meloxicam dosing began at 0.125 mg/kg/day (7.5 mg maximum) or 0.25 mg/kg/day (15 mg maximum), and naproxen dosing began at 10 mg/kg/day. One study used these doses throughout the 12-week dosing period, while the other incorporated a titration after 4 weeks to doses of 0.25 mg/kg/day and 0.375 mg/kg/day (22.5 mg maximum) of meloxicam and 15 mg/kg/day of naproxen. The efficacy analysis used the ACR Pediatric 30 responder definition, a composite of parent and investigator assessments, counts of active joints and joints with limited range of motion, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The proportion of responders were similar in all three groups in both studies, and no difference was observed between the meloxicam dose groups.

SPL TEXT:
meloxicam meloxicam LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE SILICON DIOXIDE TRISODIUM CITRATE DIHYDRATE POVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE CROSPOVIDONE, UNSPECIFIED MELOXICAM MELOXICAM YELLOW ROUND ZC;25