DRUG NAME: Aspercreme with Lidocaine Dry
GENERIC NAME: LIDOCAINE
MANUFACTURER: Chattem, Inc.
ROUTE: TOPICAL

ACTIVE INGREDIENT:
Active i ngredient Lidocaine 4%

INACTIVE INGREDIENTS:
In active ingredients : alcohol denat. (30%), caprylic/capric triglyceride, isobutane, propylene glycol

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
Use for the temporary relief of pain

WARNINGS:
Warnings For external use only Extremely flammable ■ keep away from fire, sparks, and heated surfaces. Contents under pressure, do not puncture or incinerate container. Exposure to temperatures above 120°F may cause bursting. Do not use ■ in large quantities ■ on wounds or on irritated or damaged skin ■ with a heating pad When using this product ■ use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating or inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. ■ do not bandage tightly ■ avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. Do not spray in the face or mouth. ■ do not expose the area to local heat or to direct sunlight Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ redness is present or excessive skin irritation occurs ■ you experience severe burning pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

DO NOT USE:
Do not use ■ in large quantities ■ on wounds or on irritated or damaged skin ■ with a heating pad

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
Directions ■ adults and children 12 years of age and older: ■ spray affected area every 6 to 8 hours, not more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ product will dry quickly on its own, and does not need to be rubbed in ■ if product unintentionally gets on hands, wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after each use ■ children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor

STOP USE IF:
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ redness is present or excessive skin irritation occurs ■ you experience severe burning pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied

SPL TEXT:
Aspercreme with Lidocaine Dry lidocaine LIDOCAINE LIDOCAINE ALCOHOL MEDIUM-CHAIN TRIGLYCERIDES ISOBUTANE PROPYLENE GLYCOL