DRUG NAME: Ketorolac Tromethamine
GENERIC NAME: KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE
MANUFACTURER: Aurobindo Pharma Limited
ROUTE: OPHTHALMIC

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0.5% is a member of the pyrrolo-pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for topical ophthalmic use. Its chemical name is (±)-5-Benzoyl-2,3-dihydro-1 H -pyrrolizine-1-carboxylic acid, compound with 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (1:1) and it has the following structure: Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is supplied as a sterile isotonic aqueous 0.5% solution, with a pH of 7.4. Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution contains a racemic mixture of R-(+) and S-(-)- ketorolac tromethamine. Ketorolac tromethamine may exist in three crystal forms. All forms are equally soluble in water. The pKa of ketorolac is 3.5. This white to off-white crystalline substance discolors on prolonged exposure to light. The molecular weight of ketorolac tromethamine is 376.41. The osmolality of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is 290 mOsmol/kg. Each mL of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution contains: Active: ketorolac tromethamine USP 0.5%. Preservative: benzalkonium chloride 0.01%. Inactives: edetate disodium 0.1%; octoxynol 40; water for injection; sodium chloride; hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH. checmial-structure

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug which, when administered systemically, has demonstrated analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-pyretic activity. The mechanism of its action is thought to be due to its ability to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Two drops of 0.5% ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution instilled into the eyes of patients 12 hours and 1 hour prior to cataract extraction achieved a mean ketorolac concentration of 95 ng/mL in the aqueous humor of 8 of 9 eyes tested (range 40 to 170 ng/mL). One drop of 0.5% ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution was instilled into 1 eye and 1 drop of vehicle into the other eye TID in 26 healthy subjects. Five (5) of 26 subjects had detectable concentrations of ketorolac in their plasma (range 11 to 23 ng/mL) at Day 10 during topical ocular treatment. The range of concentrations following TID dosing of 0.5% ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution are approximately 4 to 8% of the steady state mean minimum plasma concentration observed following four times daily oral administration of 10 mg ketorolac in humans (290 ± 70 ng/mL).

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug which, when administered systemically, has demonstrated analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-pyretic activity. The mechanism of its action is thought to be due to its ability to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is indicated for the temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is also indicated for the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction. Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indicated for: The temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. (1) The treatment of inflammation following cataract surgery. (1)

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. (4)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, apply one drop of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution to the affected eye(s) four times a day. For the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction, apply one drop of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution to the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage Temporary Relief of Ocular Itching Due to Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis The recommended dosage of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is one drop four times a day to the affected eye(s) for the temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. Treatment of Postoperative Inflammation in Patients Who Have Undergone Cataract Extraction Apply one drop of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution to the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period for the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction. 2.2 Use with Other Topical Ophthalmic Medications Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution has been safely administered in conjunction with other ophthalmic medications such as antibiotics, alpha-agonists, beta blockers, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, cycloplegics, and mydriatics. Drops should be administered at least 5 minutes apart.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Delayed Healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Cross-Sensitivity or Hypersensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Increased Bleeding Time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Corneal Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] The most frequent adverse reactions reported by up to 40% of patients participating in clinical trials have been transient stinging and burning on instillation. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-866-850-2876 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most frequent adverse reactions reported with the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions have been transient stinging and burning on instillation. These reactions were reported by up to 40% of patients participating in clinical trials. Other adverse reactions occurring approximately 1% to 10% of the time during treatment with ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions included allergic reactions (including eye swelling, hyperemia, and pruritus), corneal edema, iritis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, superficial keratitis, and superficial ocular infections. Other adverse reactions reported rarely with the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions included: corneal infiltrates, corneal ulcer, eye dryness, headaches, and visual disturbance (blurry vision). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0.5% in clinical practice. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to the drug. Eye Disorders: corneal erosion, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, and epithelial breakdown. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: bronchospasm or exacerbation of asthma.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution in pregnant women. No evidence of teratogenicity has been observed in rats or rabbits with ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution at clinically relevant doses. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Because of the known effects of prostaglandin-inhibiting drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of the ductus arteriosus), the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution during late pregnancy should be avoided.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 2 years old.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two controlled clinical studies showed that ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution was significantly more effective than its vehicle in relieving ocular itching caused by seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. Two controlled clinical studies showed that patients treated for two weeks with ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution were less likely to have measurable signs of inflammation (cell and flare) than patients treated with its vehicle. Results from clinical studies indicate that ketorolac tromethamine has no significant effect upon intraocular pressure; however, changes in intraocular pressure may occur following cataract surgery.

SPL TEXT:
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ketorolac Tromethamine KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE KETOROLAC BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE EDETATE DISODIUM OCTOXYNOL-40 WATER SODIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID SODIUM HYDROXIDE