DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide hydrochloride, USP, the active ingredient of metoclopramide tablets, USP is a dopamine-2 receptor antagonist. Metoclopramide hydrochloride (metoclopramide monohydrochloride monohydrate) is a white or practically white, crystalline, odorless or practically odorless powder. It is very soluble in water, freely soluble in alcohol, sparingly soluble in chloroform and practically insoluble in ether. Chemically, it is 4-amino-5-chloro- N -[2-(diethylamino)ethyl]-2-methoxy benzamide monohydrochloride monohydrate. Its structural formula is as follows: C 14 H 22 ClN 3 O 2 •HCl•H 2 O M.W. 354.3 Metoclopramide tablets, USP are for oral administration. Metoclopramide tablets, USP are available in 5 mg and 10 mg tablets. Each metoclopramide tablet USP, 5 mg contains 5 mg metoclopramide (equivalent to 5.91 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride, USP). Each metoclopramide tablet USP, 10 mg contains 10 mg metoclopramide (equivalent to 11.82 mg of metoclopramide hydrochloride, USP). Inactive Ingredients Corn starch, dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and sodium starch glycolate.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric, biliary, or pancreatic secretions. The exact mechanism of action of metoclopramide in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis has not been fully established. It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine. The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation, but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs. Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric (especially antral) contractions, relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb, and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit. It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter. It has little, if any, effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Gastroesophageal Reflux In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low lower esophageal sphincter pressure (LESP), single oral doses of metoclopramide produced dose-related increases in LESP. Effects began at about 5 mg and increased through 20 mg. The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasted about 45 minutes and that of 20 mg lasted between 2 and 3 hours. Increased rate of stomach emptying was observed with single oral doses of 10 mg. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg, the absolute bioavailability of oral metoclopramide is 80% ± 15.5% as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects. Peak plasma concentrations occurred at about 1 to 2 hours after a single oral dose. Similar time to peak was observed after individual doses at steady state. In a single dose study of 12 subjects, the area under the drug concentration-time curve increased linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg (5 times the maximum recommended single dose). Peak concentrations increased linearly with dose; time to peak concentrations remained the same; whole body clearance was unchanged; and the elimination rate remained the same. The mean elimination half-life in subjects with normal renal function was 5 to 6 hours. Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide. Distribution Metoclopramide is not extensively bound to plasma proteins (about 30%). The whole body volume of distribution is high (about 3.5 L/kg), which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues. Elimination Metabolism: Metoclopramide undergoes enzymatic metabolism via oxidation as well as glucuronide and sulfate conjugation reactions in the liver. Monodeethylmetoclopramide, a major oxidative metabolite, is formed primarily by CYP2D6, an enzyme subject to genetic variability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ]. Excretion: Approximately 85% of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appeared in the urine within 72 hours. After oral administration of 10 or 20 mg, a mean of 18% and 22% of the dose, respectively, was recovered as free metoclopramide in urine within 36 hours. Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment: In a study of 24 patients with varying degrees of renal impairment (moderate, severe, and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring dialysis), the systemic exposure (AUC) of metoclopramide in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment was about 2-fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function. The AUC of metoclopramide in patients with ESRD on dialysis was about 3.5-fold the AUC in subjects with normal renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. Patients with Hepatic Impairment: In a group of 8 patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C), the average metoclopramide clearance was reduced by approximately 50% compared to patients with normal hepatic function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ]. Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Metoclopramide on CYP2D6 Substrates Although in vitro studies suggest that metoclopramide can inhibit CYP2D6, metoclopramide is unlikely to interact with CYP2D6 substrates in vivo at therapeutically relevant concentrations. Effect of CYP2D6 Inhibitors on Metoclopramide In healthy subjects, 20 mg of metoclopramide and 60 mg of fluoxetine (a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor) were administered, following prior exposure to 60 mg fluoxetine orally for 8 days. The patients who received concomitant metoclopramide and fluoxetine had a 40% and 90% increase in metoclopramide C max and AUC 0-∞ , respectively, compared to patients who received metoclopramide alone (see Table 5) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. Table 5. Metoclopramide Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects with and without Fluoxetine Parameter Metoclopramide alone (mean SD) Metoclopramide with fluoxetine (mean SD) C max (ng/mL) 44 ± 15 62.7 ± 9.2 AUC 0-∞ (ng∙h/mL) 313 ± 113 591 ± 140 t 1/2 (h) 5.5 ± 1.1 8.5 ± 2.2

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric, biliary, or pancreatic secretions. The exact mechanism of action of metoclopramide in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis has not been fully established. It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine. The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation, but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs. Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric (especially antral) contractions, relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb, and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit. It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter. It has little, if any, effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis. Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. ( 1 ) Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates. ( 1 , 8.4 )

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide is contraindicated: In patients with a history of tardive dyskinesia (TD) or a dystonic reaction to metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ) ]. When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous (e.g., in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, mechanical obstruction, or perforation). In patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine-releasing paragangliomas. Metoclopramide may cause a hypertensive/pheochromocytoma crisis, probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. In patients with epilepsy. Metoclopramide may increase the frequency and severity of seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. In patients with hypersensitivity to metoclopramide. Reactions have included laryngeal and glossal angioedema and bronchospasm [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. History of TD or dystonic reaction to metoclopramide ( 4 ) When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( 4 ) Pheochromocytoma, catecholamine-releasing paragangliomas ( 4 ) Epilepsy ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to metoclopramide ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: TARDIVE DYSKINESIA Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible. There is no known treatment for TD. The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Discontinue metoclopramide in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD. In some patients, symptoms may lessen or resolve after metoclopramide is stopped [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer-term use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. WARNING: TARDIVE DYSKINESIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible. There is no known treatment for TD. The risk of developing TD increases with duration of treatment and total cumulative dosage ( 5.1 ) Discontinue metoclopramide in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD ( 5.1 ) Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the risk of developing TD with longer-term use ( 5.1 , 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 )

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gastroesophageal Reflux ( 2.2 ) Administer metoclopramide continuously or intermittently: Continuous: Administer 10 to 15 mg, 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime (maximum of 60 mg per day) for 4 to 12 weeks. Intermittent: Single doses up to 20 mg prior to provoking situation. Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis ( 2.3 ) Administer 10 mg, 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime (maximum of 40 mg per day) for 2 to 8 weeks Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) For gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis, see Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions for elderly patients, in patients with moderate or severe hepatic or renal impairment, and cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer-term use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.2 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide tablets may be administered continuously or intermittently in patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy: Continuous Dosing The recommended adult dosage of metoclopramide is 10 to 15 mg four times daily for 4 to 12 weeks. The treatment duration is determined by endoscopic response. Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 60 mg. Table 1 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. Intermittent Dosing If symptoms only occur intermittently or at specific times of the day, administer metoclopramide in single dose up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation. Consider dosage reductions for the populations and situations in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 to 15 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 60 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ] 5 mg 1 four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime), or 10 mg taken three times daily 30 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL/minute) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) or 10 mg twice daily 20 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower starting dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 to 15 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability. 2.3 Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis The recommended adult dosage for the treatment of acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis is 10 mg four times daily for 2 to 8 weeks, depending on symptomatic response. Avoid metoclopramide treatment for greater than 12 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 40 mg. Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take oral metoclopramide tablets, consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days (see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection). After patients are able to take oral therapy, switch to metoclopramide tablets. Table 2. Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult Patients 10 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 40 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ] 5 mg 1 four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 20 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] 5 mg twice daily 10 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections of the labeling: Tardive dyskinesia [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Other extrapyramidal effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] Fluid retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Hyperprolactinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ] Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified from clinical studies or postmarketing reports of metoclopramide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The most common adverse reactions (in approximately 10% of patients receiving 10 mg of metoclopramide four times daily) were restlessness, drowsiness, fatigue, and lassitude. In general, the incidence of adverse reactions correlated with the dosage and duration of metoclopramide administration. Adverse reactions, especially those involving the nervous system, occurred after stopping metoclopramide including dizziness, nervousness, and headaches. Central Nervous System Disorders Tardive dyskinesia, acute dystonic reactions, drug-induced parkinsonism, akathisia, and other extrapyramidal symptoms Convulsive seizures Hallucinations Restlessness, drowsiness, fatigue, and lassitude occurred in approximately 10% of patients who received 10 mg four times daily. Insomnia, headache, confusion, dizziness, or depression with suicidal ideation occurred less frequently. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome, serotonin syndrome (in combination with serotonergic agents). Endocrine Disorders : Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia Cardiovascular Disorders : Acute congestive heart failure, possible atrioventricular block, hypotension, hypertension, supraventricular tachycardia, bradycardia, fluid retention Gastrointestinal Disorders : Nausea, bowel disturbances (primarily diarrhea) Hepatic Disorders : Hepatotoxicity, characterized by, e.g., jaundice and altered liver function tests, when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential Renal and Urinary Disorders : Urinary frequency, urinary incontinence Hematologic Disorders : Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, leukopenia, methemoglobinemia, sulfhemoglobinemia Hypersensitivity Reactions : Bronchospasm (especially in patients with a history of asthma), urticaria; rash; angioedema, including glossal or laryngeal edema Eye Disorders : Visual disturbances Metabolism Disorders : Porphyria Most common adverse reactions (> 10%) are restlessness, drowsiness, fatigue, and lassitude. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antipsychotics : Potential for additive effects, including TD, EPS, and NMS; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) CNS depressants : Increased risk of CNS depression. Avoid concomitant use and monitor for adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) : See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 7.1 ) MAO inhibitors : Increased risk of hypertension; avoid concomitant use. ( 5.5 , 7.1 ) Additional drug interactions : See Full Prescribing Information. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Table 3 displays the effects of other drugs on metoclopramide. Table 3. Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Antipsychotics Clinical Impact Potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors, not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention Reduce the metoclopramide dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. Examples quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ]. Intervention Avoid metoclopramide or the interacting drug, depending on the importance of the drug to the patient. Examples alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, opiates and anxiolytics Drugs that Impair Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact Decreased systemic absorption of metoclopramide. Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect. Examples antiperistaltic antidiarrheal drugs, anticholinergic drugs, and opiates Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Decreased therapeutic effect of metoclopramide due to opposing effects on dopamine. Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect. Examples apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, and rotigotine 7.2 Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Table 4 displays the effects of metoclopramide on other drugs. Table 4. Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Dopaminergic Agonists and Drugs Increasing Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Opposing effects of metoclopramide and the interacting drug on dopamine. Potential exacerbation of symptoms (e.g., parkinsonian symptoms). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Examples Apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, rotigotine Succinylcholine, Mivacurium Clinical Impact Metoclopramide inhibits plasma cholinesterase leading to enhanced neuromuscular blockade. Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of prolonged neuromuscular blockade Drugs with Absorption Altered due to Increased Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact The effect of metoclopramide on other drugs is variable. Increased gastrointestinal (GI) motility by metoclopramide may impact absorption of other drugs leading to decreased or increased drug exposure. Intervention Drugs with Decreased Absorption (e.g., digoxin, atovaquone, posaconazole oral suspension Interaction does not apply to posaconazole delayed-release tablets , fosfomycin) : Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect of the interacting drug. For digoxin monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and increase the digoxin dose as needed (see prescribing information for digoxin). Drugs with Increased Absorption (e.g., sirolimus, tacrolimus, cyclosporine) : Monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and adjust the dose as needed. See prescribing information for the interacting drug. Insulin Clinical Impact Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose. Intervention Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin dosage regimen as needed.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Published studies, including retrospective cohort studies, national registry studies, and meta-analyses, do not report an increased risk of adverse pregnancy-related outcomes with use of metoclopramide during pregnancy. There are potential risks to the neonate following exposure in utero to metoclopramide during delivery [ see Clinical Considerations ]. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of metoclopramide to pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures about 6 and 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) [ see Data ]. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects, loss or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Metoclopramide crosses the placental barrier and may cause extrapyramidal signs and methemoglobinemia in neonates with maternal administration during delivery. Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal signs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. Data Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed following administration of oral metoclopramide during organogenesis in pregnant rats at about 6 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area and in pregnant rabbits at about 12 times the MRHD calculated on body surface area. No evidence of adverse developmental effects due to metoclopramide were observed.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Metoclopramide is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates. The safety and effectiveness of metoclopramide in pediatric patients have not been established. Dystonias and other extrapyramidal symptoms associated with metoclopramide are more common in pediatric patients than in adults [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ) ]. In addition, neonates have reduced levels of NADH-cytochrome b 5 reductase, making them more susceptible to methemoglobinemia, a possible adverse reaction of metoclopramide use in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ) ].

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Metoclopramide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions, including tardive dyskinesia (TD), may be greater in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function and may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a reduced dosage of metoclopramide in elderly patients [ see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ].

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of metoclopramide overdosage included drowsiness, disorientation, extrapyramidal reactions, other adverse reactions associated with metoclopramide use (including, e.g., methemoglobinemia), and sometimes death. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with metoclopramide overdose and concomitant treatment with another drug associated with NMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. There are no specific antidotes for metoclopramide overdosage. If over-exposure occurs, call your Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage. Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue. However, methylene blue may cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, which may be fatal. Hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis do not remove significant amounts of metoclopramide.

SPL TEXT:
Metoclopramide Metoclopramide METOCLOPRAMIDE HYDROCHLORIDE METOCLOPRAMIDE STARCH, CORN ANHYDROUS DIBASIC CALCIUM PHOSPHATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO TEVA;2203 \\Client\X$\Products\Metoclopramide Tablets USP, 10 mg (ANDA 070184)\Submissions\2017-08-30 CBE-0 - AJK\Working\INSERT\Images\metoclopramide-sf1.jpg