DRUG NAME: Unknown
GENERIC NAME: 
MANUFACTURER: 
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION ZYPREXA (olanzapine) is an atypical antipsychotic that belongs to the thienobenzodiazepine class. The chemical designation is 2-methyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-10H-thieno[2,3-b] [1,5]benzodiazepine. The molecular formula is C17H20N4S, which corresponds to a molecular weight of 312.44. The chemical structure is: Olanzapine is a yellow crystalline solid, which is practically insoluble in water. ZYPREXA tablets are intended for oral administration only. Each tablet contains olanzapine equivalent to 2.5 mg (8 μmol), 5 mg (16 μmol), 7.5 mg (24 μmol), 10 mg (32 μmol), 15 mg (48 μmol), or 20 mg (64 μmol). Inactive ingredients are carnauba wax, crospovidone, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hypromellose, lactose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and other inactive ingredients. The color coating contains Titanium Dioxide (all strengths), FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake (15 mg), or Synthetic Red Iron Oxide (20 mg). The 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 mg tablets are imprinted with edible ink which contains FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake. ZYPREXA ZYDIS (olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets) is intended for oral administration only. Each orally disintegrating tablet contains olanzapine equivalent to 5 mg (16 μmol), 10 mg (32 μmol), 15 mg (48 μmol) or 20 mg (64 μmol). It begins disintegrating in the mouth within seconds, allowing its contents to be subsequently swallowed with or without liquid. ZYPREXA ZYDIS (olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets) also contains the following inactive ingredients: gelatin, mannitol, aspartame, sodium methyl paraben, and sodium propyl paraben. Each single-dose vial provides for the administration of 10 mg (32 μmol) olanzapine with inactive ingredients 50 mg lactose monohydrate and 3.5 mg tartaric acid. Hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide may have been added during manufacturing to adjust pH. zyprexa-f001-v1

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of olanzapine, in the listed indications is unclear. However, the efficacy of olanzapine in schizophrenia could be mediated through a combination of dopamine and serotonin type 2 (5HT 2 ) antagonism. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Olanzapine binds with high affinity to the following receptors: serotonin 5HT 2A/2C , 5HT 6 (K i =4, 11, and 5 nM, respectively), dopamine D 1-4 (K i =11-31 nM), histamine H 1 (K i =7 nM), and adrenergic α 1 receptors (K i =19 nM). Olanzapine is an antagonist with moderate affinity binding for serotonin 5HT 3 (K i =57 nM) and muscarinic M 1-5 (K i =73, 96, 132, 32, and 48 nM, respectively). Olanzapine binds with low affinity to GABA A , BZD, and β-adrenergic receptors (K i >10 μM). 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Oral Administration, Monotherapy — Olanzapine is well absorbed and reaches peak concentrations in approximately 6 hours following an oral dose. It is eliminated extensively by first pass metabolism, with approximately 40% of the dose metabolized before reaching the systemic circulation. Food does not affect the rate or extent of olanzapine absorption. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that ZYPREXA tablets and ZYPREXA ZYDIS (olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets) dosage forms of olanzapine are bioequivalent. Olanzapine displays linear kinetics over the clinical dosing range. Its half-life ranges from 21 to 54 hours (5th to 95th percentile; mean of 30 hr), and apparent plasma clearance ranges from 12 to 47 L/hr (5th to 95th percentile; mean of 25 L/hr). Administration of olanzapine once daily leads to steady-state concentrations in about 1 week that are approximately twice the concentrations after single doses. Plasma concentrations, half-life, and clearance of olanzapine may vary between individuals on the basis of smoking status, gender, and age. Olanzapine is extensively distributed throughout the body, with a volume of distribution of approximately 1000 L. It is 93% bound to plasma proteins over the concentration range of 7 to 1100 ng/mL, binding primarily to albumin and α 1 -acid glycoprotein. Metabolism and Elimination — Following a single oral dose of 14 C labeled olanzapine, 7% of the dose of olanzapine was recovered in the urine as unchanged drug, indicating that olanzapine is highly metabolized. Approximately 57% and 30% of the dose was recovered in the urine and feces, respectively. In the plasma, olanzapine accounted for only 12% of the AUC for total radioactivity, indicating significant exposure to metabolites. After multiple dosing, the major circulating metabolites were the 10-N-glucuronide, present at steady state at 44% of the concentration of olanzapine, and 4′-N-desmethyl olanzapine, present at steady state at 31% of the concentration of olanzapine. Both metabolites lack pharmacological activity at the concentrations observed. Direct glucuronidation and cytochrome P450 (CYP) mediated oxidation are the primary metabolic pathways for olanzapine. In vitro studies suggest that CYPs 1A2 and 2D6, and the flavin-containing monooxygenase system are involved in olanzapine oxidation. CYP2D6 mediated oxidation appears to be a minor metabolic pathway in vivo, because the clearance of olanzapine is not reduced in subjects who are deficient in this enzyme. Intramuscular Administration — ZYPREXA IntraMuscular results in rapid absorption with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 15 to 45 minutes. Based upon a pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers, a 5 mg dose of intramuscular olanzapine for injection produces, on average, a maximum plasma concentration approximately 5 times higher than the maximum plasma concentration produced by a 5 mg dose of oral olanzapine. Area under the curve achieved after an intramuscular dose is similar to that achieved after oral administration of the same dose. The half-life observed after intramuscular administration is similar to that observed after oral dosing. The pharmacokinetics are linear over the clinical dosing range. Metabolic profiles after intramuscular administration are qualitatively similar to metabolic profiles after oral administration. Specific Populations Renal Impairment — Because olanzapine is highly metabolized before excretion and only 7% of the drug is excreted unchanged, renal dysfunction alone is unlikely to have a major impact on the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of olanzapine were similar in patients with severe renal impairment and normal subjects, indicating that dosage adjustment based upon the degree of renal impairment is not required. In addition, olanzapine is not removed by dialysis. The effect of renal impairment on metabolite elimination has not been studied. Hepatic Impairment — Although the presence of hepatic impairment may be expected to reduce the clearance of olanzapine, a study of the effect of impaired liver function in subjects (n=6) with clinically significant (Childs Pugh Classification A and B) cirrhosis revealed little effect on the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. Geriatric — In a study involving 24 healthy subjects, the mean elimination half-life of olanzapine was about 1.5 times greater in elderly (≥65 years) than in nonelderly subjects (<65 years). Caution should be used in dosing the elderly, especially if there are other factors that might additively influence drug metabolism and/or pharmacodynamic sensitivity [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Gender — Clearance of olanzapine is approximately 30% lower in women than in men. There were, however, no apparent differences between men and women in effectiveness or adverse effects. Dosage modifications based on gender should not be needed. Smoking Status — Olanzapine clearance is about 40% higher in smokers than in nonsmokers, although dosage modifications are not routinely recommended. Race — In vivo studies have shown that exposures are similar among Japanese, Chinese and Caucasians, especially after normalization for body weight differences. Dosage modifications for race are, therefore, not recommended. Combined Effects — The combined effects of age, smoking, and gender could lead to substantial pharmacokinetic differences in populations. The clearance in young smoking males, for example, may be 3 times higher than that in elderly nonsmoking females. Dosing modification may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) — In clinical studies, most adolescents were nonsmokers and this population had a lower average body weight, which resulted in higher average olanzapine exposure compared to adults.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of olanzapine, in the listed indications is unclear. However, the efficacy of olanzapine in schizophrenia could be mediated through a combination of dopamine and serotonin type 2 (5HT 2 ) antagonism.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYPREXA ® (olanzapine) is an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 1.1 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 6-week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). The increased potential (in adolescents compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia may lead clinicians to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents. ( 1.1 ) Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). The increased potential (in adolescents compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia may lead clinicians to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents. ( 1.2 ) Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. ( 1.3 ) Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults ( 14.2 ). Maintenance efficacy has not been systematically evaluated. As ZYPREXA IntraMuscular for the: Treatment of acute agitation associated with schizophrenia and bipolar I mania. ( 1.4 ) Efficacy was established in three 1-day trials in adults. ( 14.3 ) As ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.5 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. Treatment of treatment resistant depression. ( 1.6 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. 1.1 Schizophrenia Oral ZYPREXA is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Oral ZYPREXA is indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one monotherapy maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate — Oral ZYPREXA is indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders; however, diagnosis can be challenging. For pediatric schizophrenia, symptom profiles can be variable, and for bipolar I disorder, pediatric patients may have variable patterns of periodicity of manic or mixed symptoms. It is recommended that medication therapy for pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder be initiated only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation has been performed and careful consideration given to the risks associated with medication treatment. Medication treatment for both pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder should be part of a total treatment program that often includes psychological, educational and social interventions. 1.4 ZYPREXA IntraMuscular: Agitation Associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania ZYPREXA IntraMuscular is indicated for the treatment of acute agitation associated with schizophrenia and bipolar I mania. Efficacy was demonstrated in 3 short-term (24 hours of IM treatment) placebo-controlled trials in agitated adult inpatients with: schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . "Psychomotor agitation" is defined in DSM-IV as "excessive motor activity associated with a feeling of inner tension." Patients experiencing agitation often manifest behaviors that interfere with their diagnosis and care, e.g., threatening behaviors, escalating or urgently distressing behavior, or self-exhausting behavior, leading clinicians to the use of intramuscular antipsychotic medications to achieve immediate control of the agitation. 1.5 ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Oral ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, based on clinical studies. When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. ZYPREXA monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1.6 ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression Oral ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode), based on clinical studies in adult patients. When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. ZYPREXA monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None with ZYPREXA monotherapy. When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. For specific information about the contraindications of lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for these other products. None with ZYPREXA monotherapy. ( 4 ) When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 ) When using ZYPREXA in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products. ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Analyses of seventeen placebo-controlled trials (modal duration of 10 weeks), largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs, revealed a risk of death in drug-treated patients of between 1.6 to 1.7 times the risk of death in placebo-treated patients. Over the course of a typical 10-week controlled trial, the rate of death in drug-treated patients was about 4.5%, compared to a rate of about 2.6% in the placebo group. Although the causes of death were varied, most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. Observational studies suggest that, similar to atypical antipsychotic drugs, treatment with conventional antipsychotic drugs may increase mortality. The extent to which the findings of increased mortality in observational studies may be attributed to the antipsychotic drug as opposed to some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear. ZYPREXA (olanzapine) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Boxed Warning section of the package insert for Symbyax. WARNING: INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA-RELATED PSYCHOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. ZYPREXA is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. ( 5.1 , 8.5 , 17 ) When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Boxed Warning section of the package insert for Symbyax.

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 5-10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 2.5-5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 2.5-5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Agitation associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania in adults ( 2.4 ) IM: 10 mg (5 mg or 7.5 mg when clinically warranted) Assess for orthostatic hypotension prior to subsequent dosing (max. 3 doses 2-4 hrs apart) Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals. ( 2.1 ) ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Further dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week, since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended. Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 10 to 15 mg/day in clinical trials. However, doses above 10 mg/day were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. An increase to a dose greater than the target dose of 10 mg/day (i.e., to a dose of 15 mg/day or greater) is recommended only after clinical assessment. Olanzapine is not indicated for use in doses above 20 mg/day. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on ZYPREXA for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use ZYPREXA for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with schizophrenia was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 12.5 mg/day (mean dose of 11.1 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of ZYPREXA for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adults Dose Selection for Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 10 or 15 mg. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours, reflecting the procedures in the placebo-controlled trials. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended. Short-term (3-4 weeks) antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral ZYPREXA at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use ZYPREXA for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Dose Selection for Adjunctive Treatment — When administered as adjunctive treatment to lithium or valproate, oral olanzapine dosing should generally begin with 10 mg once-a-day without regard to meals. Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 10.7 mg/day (mean dose of 8.9 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of ZYPREXA for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.3 Administration of ZYPREXA ZYDIS (olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets) After opening sachet, peel back foil on blister. Do not push tablet through foil. Immediately upon opening the blister, using dry hands, remove tablet and place entire ZYPREXA ZYDIS in the mouth. Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva so it can be easily swallowed with or without liquid. 2.4 ZYPREXA IntraMuscular: Agitation Associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania Dose Selection for Agitated Adult Patients with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania — The efficacy of intramuscular olanzapine for injection in controlling agitation in these disorders was demonstrated in a dose range of 2.5 mg to 10 mg. The recommended dose in these patients is 10 mg. A lower dose of 5 or 7.5 mg may be considered when clinical factors warrant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . If agitation warranting additional intramuscular doses persists following the initial dose, subsequent doses up to 10 mg may be given. However, the efficacy of repeated doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection in agitated patients has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials. Also, the safety of total daily doses greater than 30 mg, or 10 mg injections given more frequently than 2 hours after the initial dose, and 4 hours after the second dose have not been evaluated in clinical trials. Maximal dosing of intramuscular olanzapine (e.g., 3 doses of 10 mg administered 2-4 hours apart) may be associated with a substantial occurrence of significant orthostatic hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Thus, it is recommended that patients requiring subsequent intramuscular injections be assessed for orthostatic hypotension prior to the administration of any subsequent doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection. The administration of an additional dose to a patient with a clinically significant postural change in systolic blood pressure is not recommended. If ongoing olanzapine therapy is clinically indicated, oral olanzapine may be initiated in a range of 5-20 mg/day as soon as clinically appropriate [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 )] . Intramuscular Dosing in Special Populations — A dose of 5 mg/injection should be considered for geriatric patients or when other clinical factors warrant. A lower dose of 2.5 mg/injection should be considered for patients who otherwise might be debilitated, be predisposed to hypotensive reactions, or be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Administration of ZYPREXA IntraMuscular — ZYPREXA IntraMuscular is intended for intramuscular use only. Do not administer intravenously or subcutaneously. Inject slowly, deep into the muscle mass. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Directions for Preparation of ZYPREXA IntraMuscular with Sterile Water for Injection — Dissolve the contents of the vial using 2.1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to provide a solution containing approximately 5 mg/mL of olanzapine. The resulting solution should appear clear and yellow. ZYPREXA IntraMuscular reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection should be used immediately (within 1 hour) after reconstitution. Discard any unused portion. The following table provides injection volumes for delivering various doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection. Dose, mg Olanzapine Volume of Injection, mL 10 Withdraw total contents of vial 7.5 1.5 5 1 2.5 0.5 Physical Incompatibility Information — ZYPREXA IntraMuscular should be reconstituted only with Sterile Water for Injection. ZYPREXA IntraMuscular should not be combined in a syringe with diazepam injection because precipitation occurs when these products are mixed. Lorazepam injection should not be used to reconstitute ZYPREXA IntraMuscular as this combination results in a delayed reconstitution time. ZYPREXA IntraMuscular should not be combined in a syringe with haloperidol injection because the resulting low pH has been shown to degrade olanzapine over time. 2.5 ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adults Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 12.5 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Children and Adolescents (10-17 years of age) Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Safety and efficacy of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine. For Use in Combination Symbyax ZYPREXA Fluoxetine (mg/day) (mg/day) (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. ZYPREXA monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 2.6 ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of olanzapine in combination with fluoxetine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. Table 1 above demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in adult patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode) is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. ZYPREXA monotherapy is not indicated for treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5-5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Dosing modification may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Adverse Reactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. Most common adverse reactions (≥5% and at least twice that for placebo) associated with: Oral Olanzapine Monotherapy: Schizophrenia (Adults) – postural hypotension, constipation, weight gain, dizziness, personality disorder, akathisia. ( 6.1 ) Schizophrenia (Adolescents) – sedation, weight increased, headache, increased appetite, dizziness, abdominal pain, pain in extremity, fatigue, dry mouth. ( 6.1 ) Manic or Mixed Episodes, Bipolar I Disorder (Adults) – asthenia, dry mouth, constipation, increased appetite, somnolence, dizziness, tremor. ( 6.1 ) Manic or Mixed Episodes, Bipolar I Disorder (Adolescents) – sedation, weight increased, increased appetite, headache, fatigue, dizziness, dry mouth, abdominal pain, pain in extremity. ( 6.1 ) Combination of ZYPREXA and Lithium or Valproate: Manic or Mixed Episodes, Bipolar I Disorder (Adults) – dry mouth, weight gain, increased appetite, dizziness, back pain, constipation, speech disorder, increased salivation, amnesia, paresthesia. ( 6.1 ) ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the Adverse Reactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 6 ) ZYPREXA IntraMuscular for Injection: Agitation with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania (Adults) – somnolence. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact the Safety Call Center at 1-866-770-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect or predict the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Adults The information below for olanzapine is derived from a clinical trial database for olanzapine consisting of 10,504 adult patients with approximately 4765 patient-years of exposure to olanzapine plus 722 patients with exposure to intramuscular olanzapine for injection. This database includes: (1) 2500 patients who participated in multiple-dose oral olanzapine premarketing trials in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease representing approximately 1122 patient-years of exposure as of February 14, 1995; (2) 182 patients who participated in oral olanzapine premarketing bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) trials representing approximately 66 patient-years of exposure; (3) 191 patients who participated in an oral olanzapine trial of patients having various psychiatric symptoms in association with Alzheimer's disease representing approximately 29 patient-years of exposure; (4) 5788 additional patients from 88 oral olanzapine clinical trials as of December 31, 2001; (5) 1843 additional patients from 41 olanzapine clinical trials as of October 31, 2011; and (6) 722 patients who participated in intramuscular olanzapine for injection premarketing trials in agitated patients with schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes), or dementia. Also included below is information from the premarketing 6-week clinical study database for olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, consisting of 224 patients who participated in bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) trials with approximately 22 patient-years of exposure. The conditions and duration of treatment with olanzapine varied greatly and included (in overlapping categories) open-label and double-blind phases of studies, inpatients and outpatients, fixed-dose and dose-titration studies, and short-term or longer-term exposure. Adverse reactions were assessed by collecting adverse reactions, results of physical examinations, vital signs, weights, laboratory analytes, ECGs, chest x-rays, and results of ophthalmologic examinations. Certain portions of the discussion below relating to objective or numeric safety parameters, namely, dose-dependent adverse reactions, vital sign changes, weight gain, laboratory changes, and ECG changes are derived from studies in patients with schizophrenia and have not been duplicated for bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) or agitation. However, this information is also generally applicable to bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) and agitation. Adverse reactions during exposure were obtained by spontaneous report and recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing. Consequently, it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse reactions without first grouping similar types of reactions into a smaller number of standardized reaction categories. In the tables and tabulations that follow, MedDRA and COSTART Dictionary terminology has been used to classify reported adverse reactions. The stated frequencies of adverse reactions represent the proportion of individuals who experienced, at least once, a treatment-emergent adverse reaction of the type listed. A reaction was considered treatment emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. The reported reactions do not include those reaction terms that were so general as to be uninformative. Reactions listed elsewhere in labeling may not be repeated below. It is important to emphasize that, although the reactions occurred during treatment with olanzapine, they were not necessarily caused by it. The entire label should be read to gain a complete understanding of the safety profile of olanzapine. The prescriber should be aware that the figures in the tables and tabulations cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, and investigators. The cited figures, however, do provide the prescribing healthcare provider with some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the adverse reactions incidence in the population studied. Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled and Combination Trials The following findings are based on premarketing trials of (1) oral olanzapine for schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes), a subsequent trial of patients having various psychiatric symptoms in association with Alzheimer's disease, and premarketing combination trials, and (2) intramuscular olanzapine for injection in agitated patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I mania. Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials Schizophrenia — Overall, there was no difference in the incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions (5% for oral olanzapine vs 6% for placebo). However, discontinuations due to increases in ALT were considered to be drug related (2% for oral olanzapine vs 0% for placebo). Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Overall, there was no difference in the incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions (2% for oral olanzapine vs 2% for placebo). Agitation — Overall, there was no difference in the incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions (0.4% for intramuscular olanzapine for injection vs 0% for placebo). Adverse Reactions Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment in Short-Term Combination Trials Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes), Olanzapine as Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate — In a study of patients who were already tolerating either lithium or valproate as monotherapy, discontinuation rates due to adverse reactions were 11% for the combination of oral olanzapine with lithium or valproate compared to 2% for patients who remained on lithium or valproate monotherapy. Discontinuations with the combination of oral olanzapine and lithium or valproate that occurred in more than 1 patient were: somnolence (3%), weight gain (1%), and peripheral edema (1%). Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials The most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of oral olanzapine (incidence of 5% or greater) and not observed at an equivalent incidence among placebo-treated patients (olanzapine incidence at least twice that for placebo) were: Table 9: Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Associated with the Use of Oral Olanzapine in 6-Week Trials — SCHIZOPHRENIA a Personality disorder is the COSTART term for designating nonaggressive objectionable behavior. Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine (N=248) Placebo (N=118) Postural hypotension 5 2 Constipation 9 3 Weight gain 6 1 Dizziness 11 4 Personality disorder a 8 4 Akathisia 5 1 Table 10: Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Associated with the Use of Oral Olanzapine in 3-Week and 4-Week Trials — Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine (N=125) Placebo (N=129) Asthenia 15 6 Dry mouth 22 7 Constipation 11 5 Dyspepsia 11 5 Increased appetite 6 3 Somnolence 35 13 Dizziness 18 6 Tremor 6 3 Olanzapine Intramuscular — There was 1 adverse reaction (somnolence) observed at an incidence of 5% or greater among intramuscular olanzapine for injection-treated patients and not observed at an equivalent incidence among placebo-treated patients (olanzapine incidence at least twice that for placebo) during the placebo-controlled premarketing studies. The incidence of somnolence during the 24 hour IM treatment period in clinical trials in agitated patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I mania was 6% for intramuscular olanzapine for injection and 3% for placebo. Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 2% or More among Oral Olanzapine-Treated Patients in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials Table 11 enumerates the incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in 2% or more of patients treated with oral olanzapine (doses ≥2.5 mg/day) and with incidence greater than placebo who participated in the acute phase of placebo-controlled trials. Table 11: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials with Oral Olanzapine Body System/Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine (N=532) Placebo (N=294) Body as a Whole Accidental injury 12 8 Asthenia 10 9 Fever 6 2 Back pain 5 2 Chest pain 3 1 Cardiovascular System Postural hypotension 3 1 Tachycardia 3 1 Hypertension 2 1 Digestive System Dry mouth 9 5 Constipation 9 4 Dyspepsia 7 5 Vomiting 4 3 Increased appetite 3 2 Hemic and Lymphatic System Ecchymosis 5 3 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Weight gain 5 3 Peripheral edema 3 1 Musculoskeletal System Extremity pain (other than joint) 5 3 Joint pain 5 3 Nervous System Somnolence 29 13 Insomnia 12 11 Dizziness 11 4 Abnormal gait 6 1 Tremor 4 3 Akathisia 3 2 Hypertonia 3 2 Articulation impairment 2 1 Respiratory System Rhinitis 7 6 Cough increased 6 3 Pharyngitis 4 3 Special Senses Amblyopia 3 2 Urogenital System Urinary incontinence 2 1 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Dose Dependency of Adverse Reactions A dose group difference has been observed for fatigue, dizziness, weight gain and prolactin elevation. In a single 8-week randomized, double-blind, fixed-dose study comparing 10 (N=199), 20 (N=200) and 40 (N=200) mg/day of oral olanzapine in adult patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, incidence of fatigue (10 mg/day: 1.5%; 20 mg/day: 2.1%; 40 mg/day: 6.6%) was observed with significant differences between 10 vs 40 and 20 vs 40 mg/day. The incidence of dizziness (10 mg/day: 2.6%; 20 mg/day: 1.6%; 40 mg/day: 6.6%) was observed with significant differences between 20 vs 40 mg. Dose group differences were also noted for weight gain and prolactin elevation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 , 5.15 )] . The following table addresses dose relatedness for other adverse reactions using data from a schizophrenia trial involving fixed dosage ranges of oral olanzapine. It enumerates the percentage of patients with treatment-emergent adverse reactions for the 3 fixed-dose range groups and placebo. The data were analyzed using the Cochran-Armitage test, excluding the placebo group, and the table includes only those adverse reactions for which there was a trend. Table 12: Percentage of Patients from a Schizophrenia Trial with Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions for the 3 Dose Range Groups and Placebo Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine Olanzapine Olanzapine Placebo 5 ± 2.5 mg/day 10 ± 2.5 mg/day 15 ± 2.5 mg/day Adverse Reaction (N=68) (N=65) (N=64) (N=69) Asthenia 15 8 9 20 Dry mouth 4 3 5 13 Nausea 9 0 2 9 Somnolence 16 20 30 39 Tremor 3 0 5 7 Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions in Short-Term Trials of Oral Olanzapine as Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate In the bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) adjunct placebo-controlled trials, the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the combination of olanzapine and lithium or valproate (incidence of ≥5% and at least twice placebo) were: Table 13: Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Associated with the Use of Oral Olanzapine in 6-Week Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate Trials — Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine with lithium or valproate (N=229) Placebo with lithium or valproate (N=115) Dry mouth 32 9 Weight gain 26 7 Increased appetite 24 8 Dizziness 14 7 Back pain 8 4 Constipation 8 4 Speech disorder 7 1 Increased salivation 6 2 Amnesia 5 2 Paresthesia 5 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 2% or More among Oral Olanzapine-Treated Patients in Short-Term Trials of Olanzapine as Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate Table 14 enumerates the incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in 2% or more of patients treated with the combination of olanzapine (doses ≥5 mg/day) and lithium or valproate and with incidence greater than lithium or valproate alone who participated in the acute phase of placebo-controlled combination trials. Table 14: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Oral Olanzapine as Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate a Denominator used was for females only (olanzapine, N=128; placebo, N=51). Body System/Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine with lithium or valproate (N=229) Placebo with lithium or valproate (N=115) Body as a Whole Asthenia 18 13 Back pain 8 4 Accidental injury 4 2 Chest pain 3 2 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 1 Digestive System Dry mouth 32 9 Increased appetite 24 8 Thirst 10 6 Constipation 8 4 Increased salivation 6 2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Weight gain 26 7 Peripheral edema 6 4 Edema 2 1 Nervous System Somnolence 52 27 Tremor 23 13 Depression 18 17 Dizziness 14 7 Speech disorder 7 1 Amnesia 5 2 Paresthesia 5 2 Apathy 4 3 Confusion 4 1 Euphoria 3 2 Incoordination 2 0 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 4 1 Dyspnea 3 1 Skin and Appendages Sweating 3 1 Acne 2 0 Dry skin 2 0 Special Senses Amblyopia 9 5 Abnormal vision 2 0 Urogenital System Dysmenorrhea a 2 0 Vaginitis a 2 0 For specific information about the adverse reactions observed with lithium or valproate, refer to the Adverse Reactions section of the package inserts for these other products. Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 1% or More among Intramuscular Olanzapine for Injection-Treated Patients in Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials Table 15 enumerates the incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of treatment-emergent adverse reactions that occurred in 1% or more of patients treated with intramuscular olanzapine for injection (dose range of 2.5-10 mg/injection) and with incidence greater than placebo who participated in the short-term, placebo-controlled trials in agitated patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I mania. Table 15: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Short-Term (24 Hour), Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials with Intramuscular Olanzapine for Injection in Agitated Patients with Schizophrenia or Bipolar I Mania Body System/Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine (N=415) Placebo (N=150) Body as a Whole Asthenia 2 1 Cardiovascular System Hypotension 2 0 Postural hypotension 1 0 Nervous System Somnolence 6 3 Dizziness 4 2 Tremor 1 0 Extrapyramidal Symptoms The following table enumerates the percentage of patients with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms as assessed by categorical analyses of formal rating scales during acute therapy in a controlled clinical trial comparing oral olanzapine at 3 fixed doses with placebo in the treatment of schizophrenia in a 6-week trial. Table 16: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms Assessed by Rating Scales Incidence in a Fixed Dosage Range, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of Oral Olanzapine in Schizophrenia — Acute Phase a Percentage of patients with a Simpson-Angus Scale total score >3. b Percentage of patients with a Barnes Akathisia Scale global score ≥2. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Placebo Olanzapine 5 ± 2.5 mg/day Olanzapine 10 ± 2.5 mg/day Olanzapine 15 ± 2.5 mg/day Parkinsonism a 15 14 12 14 Akathisia b 23 16 19 27 The following table enumerates the percentage of patients with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms as assessed by spontaneously reported adverse reactions during acute therapy in the same controlled clinical trial comparing olanzapine at 3 fixed doses with placebo in the treatment of schizophrenia in a 6-week trial. Table 17: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms Assessed by Adverse Reactions Incidence in a Fixed Dosage Range, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of Oral Olanzapine in Schizophrenia — Acute Phase a Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: dystonia, generalized spasm, neck rigidity, oculogyric crisis, opisthotonos, torticollis. b Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: akinesia, cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal syndrome, hypertonia, hypokinesia, masked facies, tremor. c Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: akathisia, hyperkinesia. d Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: buccoglossal syndrome, choreoathetosis, dyskinesia, tardive dyskinesia. e Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: movement disorder, myoclonus, twitching. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Placebo (N=68) Olanzapine 5 ± 2.5 mg/day (N=65) Olanzapine 10 ± 2.5 mg/day (N=64) Olanzapine 15 ± 2.5 mg/day (N=69) Dystonic events a 1 3 2 3 Parkinsonism events b 10 8 14 20 Akathisia events c 1 5 11 10 Dyskinetic events d 4 0 2 1 Residual events e 1 2 5 1 Any extrapyramidal event 16 15 25 32 The following table enumerates the percentage of adolescent patients with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms as assessed by spontaneously reported adverse reactions during acute therapy (dose range: 2.5 to 20 mg/day). Table 18: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms Assessed by Adverse Reactions Incidence in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Oral Olanzapine in Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder — Adolescents a Categories are based on Standard MedDRA Queries (SMQ) for extrapyramidal symptoms as defined in MedDRA version 12.0. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Placebo Olanzapine Categories a (N=89) (N=179) Dystonic events 0 1 Parkinsonism events 2 1 Akathisia events 4 6 Dyskinetic events 0 1 Nonspecific events 0 4 Any extrapyramidal event 6 10 The following table enumerates the percentage of patients with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms as assessed by categorical analyses of formal rating scales during controlled clinical trials comparing fixed doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection with placebo in agitation. Patients in each dose group could receive up to 3 injections during the trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Patient assessments were conducted during the 24 hours following the initial dose of intramuscular olanzapine for injection. Table 19: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms Assessed by Rating Scales Incidence in a Fixed Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of Intramuscular Olanzapine for Injection in Agitated Patients with Schizophrenia a Percentage of patients with a Simpson-Angus Scale total score >3. b Percentage of patients with a Barnes Akathisia Scale global score ≥2. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Placebo Olanzapine IM 2.5 mg Olanzapine IM 5 mg Olanzapine IM 7.5 mg Olanzapine IM 10 mg Parkinsonism a 0 0 0 0 3 Akathisia b 0 0 5 0 0 The following table enumerates the percentage of patients with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms as assessed by spontaneously reported adverse reactions in the same controlled clinical trial comparing fixed doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection with placebo in agitated patients with schizophrenia. Table 20: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms Assessed by Adverse Reactions Incidence in a Fixed Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of Intramuscular Olanzapine for Injection in Agitated Patients with Schizophrenia a Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: dystonia, generalized spasm, neck rigidity, oculogyric crisis, opisthotonos, torticollis. b Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: akinesia, cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal syndrome, hypertonia, hypokinesia, masked facies, tremor. c Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: akathisia, hyperkinesia. d Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: buccoglossal syndrome, choreoathetosis, dyskinesia, tardive dyskinesia. e Patients with the following COSTART terms were counted in this category: movement disorder, myoclonus, twitching. Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Placebo (N=45) Olanzapine IM 2.5 mg (N=48) Olanzapine IM 5 mg (N=45) Olanzapine IM 7.5 mg (N=46) Olanzapine IM 10 mg (N=46) Dystonic events a 0 0 0 0 0 Parkinsonism events b 0 4 2 0 0 Akathisia events c 0 2 0 0 0 Dyskinetic events d 0 0 0 0 0 Residual events e 0 0 0 0 0 Any extrapyramidal events 0 4 2 0 0 Dystonia, Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, the frequency and severity are greater with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. In general, an elevated risk of acute dystonia may be observed in males and younger age groups receiving antipsychotics; however, events of dystonia have been reported infrequently (<1%) with olanzapine use. Other Adverse Reactions Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Trial Evaluation of Oral Olanzapine Following is a list of treatment-emergent adverse reactions reported by patients treated with oral olanzapine (at multiple doses ≥1 mg/day) in clinical trials. This listing is not intended to include reactions (1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, (2) for which a drug cause was remote, (3) which were so general as to be uninformative, (4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or (5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Reactions are classified by body system using the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients; rare reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Body as a Whole — Infrequent: chills, face edema, photosensitivity reaction, suicide attempt 1 ; Rare: chills and fever, hangover effect, sudden death 1 . Cardiovascular System — Infrequent: cerebrovascular accident, vasodilatation. Digestive System — Infrequent: abdominal distension, nausea and vomiting, tongue edema; Rare: ileus, intestinal obstruction, liver fatty deposit. Hemic and Lymphatic System — Infrequent: thrombocytopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders — Frequent: alkaline phosphatase increased; Infrequent: bilirubinemia, hypoproteinemia. Musculoskeletal System — Rare: osteoporosis. Nervous System — Infrequent: ataxia, dysarthria, libido decreased, stupor; Rare: coma. Respiratory System — Infrequent: epistaxis; Rare: lung edema. Skin and Appendages — Infrequent: alopecia. Special Senses — Infrequent: abnormality of accommodation, dry eyes; Rare: mydriasis. Urogenital System — Infrequent: amenorrhea 2 , breast pain, decreased menstruation, impotence 2 , increased menstruation 2 , menorrhagia 2 , metrorrhagia 2 , polyuria 2 , urinary frequency, urinary retention, urinary urgency, urination impaired. 1 These terms represent serious adverse events but do not meet the definition for adverse drug reactions. They are included here because of their seriousness. 2 Adjusted for gender. Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Trial Evaluation of Intramuscular Olanzapine for Injection Following is a list of treatment-emergent adverse reactions reported by patients treated with intramuscular olanzapine for injection (at 1 or more doses ≥2.5 mg/injection) in clinical trials. This listing is not intended to include reactions (1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, (2) for which a drug cause was remote, (3) which were so general as to be uninformative, (4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or (5) for which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Reactions are classified by body system using the following definitions: frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients; infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients. Body as a Whole — Frequent: injection site pain. Cardiovascular System — Infrequent: syncope. Digestive System — Infrequent: nausea. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders — Infrequent: creatine phosphokinase increased. Clinical Trials in Adolescent Patients (age 13 to 17 years) Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions in Oral Olanzapine Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Trials Adverse reactions in adolescent patients treated with oral olanzapine (doses ≥2.5 mg) reported with an incidence of 5% or more and reported at least twice as frequently as placebo-treated patients are listed in Table 21 . Table 21: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions of ≥5% Incidence among Adolescents (13-17 Years Old) with Schizophrenia or Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) a Patients with the following MedDRA terms were counted in this category: hypersomnia, lethargy, sedation, somnolence. b Patients with the following MedDRA terms were counted in this category: abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, abdominal pain upper. Adverse Reactions Percentage of Patients Reporting Event 6 Week Trial % Schizophrenia Patients 3 Week Trial % Bipolar Patients Olanzapine (N=72) Placebo (N=35) Olanzapine (N=107) Placebo (N=54) Sedation a 39 9 48 9 Weight increased 31 9 29 4 Headache 17 6 17 17 Increased appetite 17 9 29 4 Dizziness 8 3 7 2 Abdominal pain b 6 3 6 7 Pain in extremity 6 3 5 0 Fatigue 3 3 14 6 Dry mouth 4 0 7 0 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 2% or More among Oral Olanzapine-Treated Patients in Short-Term (3-6 weeks), Placebo-Controlled Trials Adverse reactions in adolescent patients treated with oral olanzapine (doses ≥2.5 mg) reported with an incidence of 2% or more and greater than placebo are listed in Table 22 . Table 22: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions of ≥2% Incidence among Adolescents (13-17 Years Old) (Combined Incidence from Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Schizophrenia or Bipolar I Disorder [Manic or Mixed Episodes]) a Patients with the following MedDRA terms were counted in this category: hypersomnia, lethargy, sedation, somnolence. b The terms alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and hepatic enzyme were combined under liver enzymes. c Patients with the following MedDRA terms were counted in this category: lower respiratory tract infection, respiratory tract infection, respiratory tract infection viral, upper respiratory tract infection, viral upper respiratory tract infection. Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Olanzapine (N=179) Placebo (N=89) Sedation a 44 9 Weight increased 30 6 Increased appetite 24 6 Headache 17 12 Fatigue 9 4 Dizziness 7 2 Dry mouth 6 0 Pain in extremity 5 1 Constipation 4 0 Nasopharyngitis 4 2 Diarrhea 3 0 Restlessness 3 2 Liver enzymes increased b 8 1 Dyspepsia 3 1 Epistaxis 3 0 Respiratory tract infection c 3 2 Sinusitis 3 0 Arthralgia 2 0 Musculoskeletal stiffness 2 0 Vital Signs and Laboratory Studies Vital Sign Changes — Oral olanzapine was associated with orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia in clinical trials. Intramuscular olanzapine for injection was associated with bradycardia, hypotension, and tachycardia in clinical trials [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Laboratory Changes Olanzapine Monotherapy in Adults: An assessment of the premarketing experience for olanzapine revealed an association with asymptomatic increases in ALT, AST, and GGT. Within the original premarketing database of about 2400 adult patients with baseline ALT ≤90 IU/L, the incidence of ALT elevations to >200 IU/L was 2% (50/2381). None of these patients experienced jaundice or other symptoms attributable to liver impairment and most had transient changes that tended to normalize while olanzapine treatment was continued. In placebo-controlled olanzapine monotherapy studies in adults, clinically significant ALT elevations (change from <3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] at baseline to ≥3 times ULN) were observed in 5% (77/1426) of patients exposed to olanzapine compared to 1% (10/1187) of patients exposed to placebo. ALT elevations ≥5 times ULN were observed in 2% (29/1438) of olanzapine-treated patients, compared to 0.3% (4/1196) of placebo-treated patients. ALT values returned to normal, or were decreasing, at last follow-up in the majority of patients who either continued treatment with olanzapine or discontinued olanzapine. No patient with elevated ALT values experienced jaundice, liver failure, or met the criteria for Hy's Rule. From an analysis of the laboratory data in an integrated database of 41 completed clinical studies in adult patients treated with oral olanzapine, high GGT levels were recorded in ≥1% (88/5245) of patients. Caution should be exercised in patients with signs and symptoms of hepatic impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions associated with limited hepatic functional reserve, and in patients who are being treated with potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Olanzapine administration was also associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] , with an asymptomatic elevation of the eosinophil count in 0.3% of patients, and with an increase in CPK. From an analysis of the laboratory data in an integrated database of 41 completed clinical studies in adult patients treated with oral olanzapine, elevated uric acid was recorded in ≥3% (171/4641) of patients. Olanzapine Monotherapy in Adolescents: In placebo-controlled clinical trials of adolescent patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes), greater frequencies for the following treatment-emergent findings, at anytime, were observed in laboratory analytes compared to placebo: elevated ALT (≥3X ULN in patients with ALT at baseline <3X ULN), (12% vs 2%); elevated AST (28% vs 4%); low total bilirubin (22% vs 7%); elevated GGT (10% vs 1%); and elevated prolactin (47% vs 7%). In placebo-controlled olanzapine monotherapy studies in adolescents, clinically significant ALT elevations (change from <3 times ULN at baseline to ≥3 times ULN) were observed in 12% (22/192) of patients exposed to olanzapine compared to 2% (2/109) of patients exposed to placebo. ALT elevations ≥5 times ULN were observed in 4% (8/192) of olanzapine-treated patients, compared to 1% (1/109) of placebo-treated patients. ALT values returned to normal, or were decreasing, at last follow-up in the majority of patients who either continued treatment with olanzapine or discontinued olanzapine. No adolescent patient with elevated ALT values experienced jaundice, liver failure, or met the criteria for Hy's Rule. ECG Changes — In pooled studies of adults as well as pooled studies of adolescents, there were no significant differences between olanzapine and placebo in the proportions of patients experiencing potentially important changes in ECG parameters, including QT, QTc (Fridericia corrected), and PR intervals. Olanzapine use was associated with a mean increase in heart rate compared to placebo (adults: +2.4 beats per minute vs no change with placebo; adolescents: +6.3 beats per minute vs -5.1 beats per minute with placebo). This increase in heart rate may be related to olanzapine's potential for inducing orthostatic changes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ZYPREXA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is difficult to reliably estimate their frequency or evaluate a causal relationship to drug exposure. Adverse reactions reported since market introduction that were temporally (but not necessarily causally) related to ZYPREXA therapy include the following: allergic reaction (e.g., anaphylactoid reaction, angioedema, pruritus or urticaria), cholestatic or mixed liver injury, diabetic coma, diabetic ketoacidosis, discontinuation reaction (diaphoresis, nausea or vomiting), Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), hepatitis, jaundice, neutropenia, pancreatitis, priapism, rash, restless legs syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, salivary hypersecretion, stuttering 1 , venous thromboembolic events (including pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis), fecal incontinence, and somnambulism. Random cholesterol levels of ≥240 mg/dL and random triglyceride levels of ≥1000 mg/dL have been reported. 1 Stuttering was only studied in oral and long acting injection (LAI) formulations.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The risks of using olanzapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) Alcohol: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 ) Carbamazepine: Increased clearance of olanzapine. ( 7.1 ) Fluvoxamine: May increase olanzapine levels. ( 7.1 ) ZYPREXA and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 7.1 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. ( 7.2 ) Antihypertensive Agents: Enhanced antihypertensive effect. ( 7.2 ) Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/dopamine agonists. ( 7.2 ) Lorazepam (IM): Increased somnolence with IM olanzapine. ( 7.2 ) Other Concomitant Drug Therapy: When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Drug Interactions sections of the package insert for those products. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Cimetidine and Antacids — Single doses of cimetidine (800 mg) or aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids did not affect the oral bioavailability of olanzapine. Inducers of CYP1A2 — Carbamazepine therapy (200 mg bid) causes an approximately 50% increase in the clearance of olanzapine. This increase is likely due to the fact that carbamazepine is a potent inducer of CYP1A2 activity. Higher daily doses of carbamazepine may cause an even greater increase in olanzapine clearance. Alcohol — Ethanol (45 mg/70 kg single dose) did not have an effect on olanzapine pharmacokinetics. The co-administration of alcohol (i.e., ethanol) with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Fluvoxamine: Fluvoxamine, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, decreases the clearance of olanzapine. This results in a mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine of 54% in female nonsmokers and 77% in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC is 52% and 108%, respectively. Lower doses of olanzapine should be considered in patients receiving concomitant treatment with fluvoxamine. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. The magnitude of the impact of this factor is small in comparison to the overall variability between individuals, and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Inducers of CYP1A2 or Glucuronyl Transferase — Omeprazole and rifampin may cause an increase in olanzapine clearance. Charcoal — The administration of activated charcoal (1 g) reduced the Cmax and AUC of oral olanzapine by about 60%. As peak olanzapine levels are not typically obtained until about 6 hours after dosing, charcoal may be a useful treatment for olanzapine overdose. Anticholinergic Drugs — Concomitant treatment with olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. ZYPREXA should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . 7.2 Potential for Olanzapine to Affect Other Drugs CNS Acting Drugs — Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when olanzapine is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Antihypertensive Agents — Olanzapine, because of its potential for inducing hypotension, may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists — Olanzapine may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Lorazepam (IM) — Administration of intramuscular lorazepam (2 mg) 1 hour after intramuscular olanzapine for injection (5 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine, unconjugated lorazepam, or total lorazepam. However, this co-administration of intramuscular lorazepam and intramuscular olanzapine for injection added to the somnolence observed with either drug alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Lithium — Multiple doses of olanzapine (10 mg for 8 days) did not influence the kinetics of lithium. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of lithium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] . Valproate — Olanzapine (10 mg daily for 2 weeks) did not affect the steady state plasma concentrations of valproate. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of valproate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] . Effect of Olanzapine on Drug Metabolizing Enzymes — In vitro studies utilizing human liver microsomes suggest that olanzapine has little potential to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A. Thus, olanzapine is unlikely to cause clinically important drug interactions mediated by these enzymes. Imipramine — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine or its active metabolite desipramine. Warfarin — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Diazepam — Olanzapine did not influence the pharmacokinetics of diazepam or its active metabolite N-desmethyldiazepam. However, diazepam co-administered with olanzapine increased the orthostatic hypotension observed with either drug given alone [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Alcohol — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of ethanol [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Biperiden — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of biperiden. Theophylline — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline or its metabolites.

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to atypical antipsychotics, including ZYPREXA, during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by contacting the National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics at 1-866-961-2388 or visit http://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry/. Risk Summary Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, including ZYPREXA, during the third trimester are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery (see Clinical Considerations) . Overall available data from published epidemiologic studies of pregnant women exposed to olanzapine have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes (see Data) . There are risks to the mother associated with untreated schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder and with exposure to antipsychotics, including ZYPREXA, during pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations) . Olanzapine was not teratogenic when administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits at doses that are 9- and 30-times the daily oral maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), based on mg/m 2 body surface area; some fetal toxicities were observed at these doses (see Data) . The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated maternal and embryo/fetal risk There is a risk to the mother from untreated schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder, including increased risk of relapse, hospitalization, and suicide. Schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are associated with increased adverse perinatal outcomes, including preterm birth. It is not known if this is a direct result of the illness or other comorbid factors. Fetal/Neonatal adverse reactions Extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms, including agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, and feeding disorder have been reported in neonates who were exposed to antipsychotic drugs, including ZYPREXA, during the third trimester of pregnancy. These symptoms have varied in severity. Monitor neonates for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms and manage symptoms appropriately. Some neonates recovered within hours or days without specific treatment; others required prolonged hospitalization. Data Human Data Placental passage has been reported in published study reports; however, the placental passage ratio was highly variable ranging between 7% to 167% at birth following exposure during pregnancy. The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown. Published data from observational studies, birth registries, and case reports that have evaluated the use of atypical antipsychotics during pregnancy do not establish an increased risk of major birth defects. A retrospective cohort study from a Medicaid database of 9258 women exposed to antipsychotics during pregnancy did not indicate an overall increased risk for major birth defects. Animal Data In oral reproduction studies in rats at doses up to 18 mg/kg/day and in rabbits at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day (9 and 30 times the daily oral MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area, respectively), no evidence of teratogenicity was observed. In an oral rat teratology study, early resorptions and increased numbers of nonviable fetuses were observed at a dose of 18 mg/kg/day (9 times the daily oral MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area), and gestation was prolonged at 10 mg/kg/day (5 times the daily oral MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area). In an oral rabbit teratology study, fetal toxicity manifested as increased resorptions and decreased fetal weight, occurred at a maternally toxic dose of 30 mg/kg/day (30 times the daily oral MRHD based on mg/m 2 body surface area).

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of oral ZYPREXA in the treatment of schizophrenia and manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder were established in short-term studies in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years). Use of ZYPREXA in adolescents is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of ZYPREXA in which 268 adolescents received ZYPREXA in a range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )] . Recommended starting dose for adolescents is lower than that for adults [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 )] . Compared to patients from adult clinical trials, adolescents were likely to gain more weight, experience increased sedation, and have greater increases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, prolactin and hepatic aminotransferase levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 , 5.15 , 5.17 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Indications and Usage ( 1.1 , 1.2 )] . Safety and effectiveness of olanzapine in children <13 years of age have not been established [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Safety and efficacy of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) have been established for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. Safety and effectiveness of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination in children <10 years of age have not been established.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Of the 2500 patients in premarketing clinical studies with oral olanzapine, 11% (263) were 65 years of age or over. In patients with schizophrenia, there was no indication of any different tolerability of olanzapine in the elderly compared to younger patients. Studies in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis have suggested that there may be a different tolerability profile in this population compared to younger patients with schizophrenia. Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with olanzapine are at an increased risk of death compared to placebo. In placebo-controlled studies of olanzapine in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse events (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack) in patients treated with olanzapine compared to patients treated with placebo. In 5 placebo-controlled studies of olanzapine in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis (n=1184), the following adverse reactions were reported in olanzapine-treated patients at an incidence of at least 2% and significantly greater than placebo-treated patients: falls, somnolence, peripheral edema, abnormal gait, urinary incontinence, lethargy, increased weight, asthenia, pyrexia, pneumonia, dry mouth and visual hallucinations. The rate of discontinuation due to adverse reactions was greater with olanzapine than placebo (13% vs 7%). Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with olanzapine are at an increased risk of death compared to placebo. Olanzapine is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Olanzapine is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis. Also, the presence of factors that might decrease pharmacokinetic clearance or increase the pharmacodynamic response to olanzapine should lead to consideration of a lower starting dose for any geriatric patient [see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Clinical studies of ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination did not include sufficient numbers of patients ≥65 years of age to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE 10.1 Human Experience In premarketing trials involving more than 3100 patients and/or normal subjects, accidental or intentional acute overdosage of olanzapine was identified in 67 patients. In the patient taking the largest identified amount, 300 mg, the only symptoms reported were drowsiness and slurred speech. In the limited number of patients who were evaluated in hospitals, including the patient taking 300 mg, there were no observations indicating an adverse change in laboratory analytes or ECG. Vital signs were usually within normal limits following overdoses. In postmarketing reports of overdose with olanzapine alone, symptoms have been reported in the majority of cases. In symptomatic patients, symptoms with ≥10% incidence included agitation/aggressiveness, dysarthria, tachycardia, various extrapyramidal symptoms, and reduced level of consciousness ranging from sedation to coma. Among less commonly reported symptoms were the following potentially medically serious reactions: aspiration, cardiopulmonary arrest, cardiac arrhythmias (such as supraventricular tachycardia and 1 patient experiencing sinus pause with spontaneous resumption of normal rhythm), delirium, possible neuroleptic malignant syndrome, respiratory depression/arrest, convulsion, hypertension, and hypotension. Eli Lilly and Company has received reports of fatality in association with overdose of olanzapine alone. In 1 case of death, the amount of acutely ingested olanzapine was reported to be possibly as low as 450 mg of oral olanzapine; however, in another case, a patient was reported to survive an acute olanzapine ingestion of approximately 2 g of oral olanzapine. 10.2 Management of Overdose There is no specific antidote to an overdose of ZYPREXA. The possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered. Establish and maintain an airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation. Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous electrocardiographic monitoring to detect possible arrhythmias. Contact a Certified Poison Control Center for the most up to date information on the management of overdosage (1-800-222-1222). For specific information about overdosage with lithium or valproate, refer to the Overdosage section of the prescribing information for those products. For specific information about overdosage with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Overdosage section of the Symbyax prescribing information.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES When using ZYPREXA and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. 14.1 Schizophrenia Adults The efficacy of oral olanzapine in the treatment of schizophrenia was established in 2 short-term (6-week) controlled trials of adult inpatients who met DSM III-R criteria for schizophrenia. A single haloperidol arm was included as a comparative treatment in 1 of the 2 trials, but this trial did not compare these 2 drugs on the full range of clinically relevant doses for both. Several instruments were used for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms in these studies, among them the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), a multi-item inventory of general psychopathology traditionally used to evaluate the effects of drug treatment in schizophrenia. The BPRS psychosis cluster (conceptual disorganization, hallucinatory behavior, suspiciousness, and unusual thought content) is considered a particularly useful subset for assessing actively psychotic schizophrenic patients. A second traditional assessment, the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), reflects the impression of a skilled observer, fully familiar with the manifestations of schizophrenia, about the overall clinical state of the patient. In addition, 2 more recently developed scales were employed; these included the 30-item Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS), in which are embedded the 18 items of the BPRS, and the Scale for Assessing Negative Symptoms (SANS). The trial summaries below focus on the following outcomes: PANSS total and/or BPRS total; BPRS psychosis cluster; PANSS negative subscale or SANS; and CGI Severity. The results of the trials follow: (1) In a 6-week, placebo-controlled trial (n=149) involving 2 fixed olanzapine doses of 1 and 10 mg/day (once daily schedule), olanzapine, at 10 mg/day (but not at 1 mg/day), was superior to placebo on the PANSS total score (also on the extracted BPRS total), on the BPRS psychosis cluster, on the PANSS Negative subscale, and on CGI Severity. (2) In a 6-week, placebo-controlled trial (n=253) involving 3 fixed dose ranges of olanzapine (5 ± 2.5 mg/day, 10 ± 2.5 mg/day, and 15 ± 2.5 mg/day) on a once daily schedule, the 2 highest olanzapine dose groups (actual mean doses of 12 and 16 mg/day, respectively) were superior to placebo on BPRS total score, BPRS psychosis cluster, and CGI severity score; the highest olanzapine dose group was superior to placebo on the SANS. There was no clear advantage for the high-dose group over the medium-dose group. (3) In a longer-term trial, adult outpatients (n=326) who predominantly met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia and who remained stable on olanzapine during open-label treatment for at least 8 weeks were randomized to continuation on their current olanzapine doses (ranging from 10 to 20 mg/day) or to placebo. The follow-up period to observe patients for relapse, defined in terms of increases in BPRS positive symptoms or hospitalization, was planned for 12 months, however, criteria were met for stopping the trial early due to an excess of placebo relapses compared to olanzapine relapses, and olanzapine was superior to placebo on time to relapse, the primary outcome for this study. Thus, olanzapine was more effective than placebo at maintaining efficacy in patients stabilized for approximately 8 weeks and followed for an observation period of up to 8 months. Examination of population subsets (race and gender) did not reveal any differential responsiveness on the basis of these subgroupings. Adolescents The efficacy of oral olanzapine in the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) was established in a 6-week double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial of inpatients and outpatients with schizophrenia (n=107) who met diagnostic criteria according to DSM-IV-TR and confirmed by the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School Aged Children-Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL). The primary rating instrument used for assessing psychiatric signs and symptoms in this trial was the Anchored Version of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale for Children (BPRS-C) total score. In this flexible-dose trial, olanzapine 2.5 to 20 mg/day (mean modal dose 12.5 mg/day, mean dose of 11.1 mg/day) was more effective than placebo in the treatment of adolescents diagnosed with schizophrenia, as supported by the statistically significantly greater mean reduction in BPRS-C total score for patients in the olanzapine treatment group than in the placebo group. While there is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the adolescent patient treated with ZYPREXA should be maintained, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. It is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 14.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adults Monotherapy — The efficacy of oral olanzapine in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes was established in 2 short-term (one 3-week and one 4-week) placebo-controlled trials in adult patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder with manic or mixed episodes. These trials included patients with or without psychotic features and with or without a rapid-cycling course. The primary rating instrument used for assessing manic symptoms in these trials was the Young Mania Rating Scale (Y-MRS), an 11-item clinician-rated scale traditionally used to assess the degree of manic symptomatology (irritability, disruptive/aggressive behavior, sleep, elevated mood, speech, increased activity, sexual interest, language/thought disorder, thought content, appearance, and insight) in a range from 0 (no manic features) to 60 (maximum score). The primary outcome in these trials was change from baseline in the Y-MRS total score. The results of the trials follow: (1) In one 3-week placebo-controlled trial (n=67) which involved a dose range of olanzapine (5-20 mg/day, once daily, starting at 10 mg/day), olanzapine was superior to placebo in the reduction of Y-MRS total score. In an identically designed trial conducted simultaneously with the first trial, olanzapine demonstrated a similar treatment difference, but possibly due to sample size and site variability, was not shown to be superior to placebo on this outcome. (2) In a 4-week placebo-controlled trial (n=115) which involved a dose range of olanzapine (5-20 mg/day, once daily, starting at 15 mg/day), olanzapine was superior to placebo in the reduction of Y-MRS total score. (3) In another trial, 361 patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for a manic or mixed episode of bipolar I disorder who had responded during an initial open-label treatment phase for about 2 weeks, on average, to olanzapine 5 to 20 mg/day were randomized to either continuation of olanzapine at their same dose (n=225) or to placebo (n=136), for observation of relapse. Approximately 50% of the patients had discontinued from the olanzapine group by day 59 and 50% of the placebo group had discontinued by day 23 of double-blind treatment. Response during the open-label phase was defined by having a decrease of the Y-MRS total score to ≤12 and HAM-D 21 to ≤8. Relapse during the double-blind phase was defined as an increase of the Y-MRS or HAM-D 21 total score to ≥15, or being hospitalized for either mania or depression. In the randomized phase, patients receiving continued olanzapine experienced a significantly longer time to relapse. Adjunct to Lithium or Valproate — The efficacy of oral olanzapine with concomitant lithium or valproate in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes was established in 2 controlled trials in patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder with manic or mixed episodes. These trials included patients with or without psychotic features and with or without a rapid-cycling course. The results of the trials follow: (1) In one 6-week placebo-controlled combination trial, 175 outpatients on lithium or valproate therapy with inadequately controlled manic or mixed symptoms (Y-MRS ≥16) were randomized to receive either olanzapine or placebo, in combination with their original therapy. Olanzapine (in a dose range of 5-20 mg/day, once daily, starting at 10 mg/day) combined with lithium or valproate (in a therapeutic range of 0.6 mEq/L to 1.2 mEq/L or 50 μg/mL to 125 μg/mL, respectively) was superior to lithium or valproate alone in the reduction of Y-MRS total score. (2) In a second 6-week placebo-controlled combination trial, 169 outpatients on lithium or valproate therapy with inadequately controlled manic or mixed symptoms (Y-MRS ≥16) were randomized to receive either olanzapine or placebo, in combination with their original therapy. Olanzapine (in a dose range of 5-20 mg/day, once daily, starting at 10 mg/day) combined with lithium or valproate (in a therapeutic range of 0.6 mEq/L to 1.2 mEq/L or 50 μg/mL to 125 μg/mL, respectively) was superior to lithium or valproate alone in the reduction of Y-MRS total score. Adolescents Acute Monotherapy — The efficacy of oral olanzapine in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) was established in a 3-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial of adolescent inpatients and outpatients who met the diagnostic criteria for manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (with or without psychotic features) according to the DSM-IV-TR (n=161). Diagnosis was confirmed by the K-SADS-PL. The primary rating instrument used for assessing manic symptoms in this trial was the Adolescent Structured Young-Mania Rating Scale (Y-MRS) total score. In this flexible-dose trial, olanzapine 2.5 to 20 mg/day (mean modal dose 10.7 mg/day, mean dose of 8.9 mg/day) was more effective than placebo in the treatment of adolescents with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, as supported by the statistically significantly greater mean reduction in Y-MRS total score for patients in the olanzapine treatment group than in the placebo group. While there is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the adolescent patient treated with ZYPREXA should be maintained, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. It is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 14.3 Agitation Associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania The efficacy of intramuscular olanzapine for injection for the treatment of agitation was established in 3 short-term (24 hours of IM treatment) placebo-controlled trials in agitated adult inpatients from 2 diagnostic groups: schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes). Each of the trials included a single active comparator treatment arm of either haloperidol injection (schizophrenia studies) or lorazepam injection (bipolar I mania study). Patients enrolled in the trials needed to be: (1) judged by the clinical investigators as clinically agitated and clinically appropriate candidates for treatment with intramuscular medication, and (2) exhibiting a level of agitation that met or exceeded a threshold score of ≥14 on the 5 items comprising the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) Excited Component (i.e., poor impulse control, tension, hostility, uncooperativeness and excitement items) with at least 1 individual item score ≥4 using a 1-7 scoring system (1=absent, 4=moderate, 7=extreme). In the studies, the mean baseline PANSS Excited Component score was 18.4, with scores ranging from 13 to 32 (out of a maximum score of 35), thus suggesting predominantly moderate levels of agitation with some patients experiencing mild or severe levels of agitation. The primary efficacy measure used for assessing agitation signs and symptoms in these trials was the change from baseline in the PANSS Excited Component at 2 hours post-injection. Patients could receive up to 3 injections during the 24 hour IM treatment periods; however, patients could not receive the second injection until after the initial 2 hour period when the primary efficacy measure was assessed. The results of the trials follow: (1) In a placebo-controlled trial in agitated inpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia (n=270), 4 fixed intramuscular olanzapine for injection doses of 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg and 10 mg were evaluated. All doses were statistically superior to placebo on the PANSS Excited Component at 2 hours post-injection. However, the effect was larger and more consistent for the 3 highest doses. There were no significant pairwise differences for the 7.5 and 10 mg doses over the 5 mg dose. (2) In a second placebo-controlled trial in agitated inpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia (n=311), 1 fixed intramuscular olanzapine for injection dose of 10 mg was evaluated. Olanzapine for injection was statistically superior to placebo on the PANSS Excited Component at 2 hours post-injection. (3) In a placebo-controlled trial in agitated inpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder (and currently displaying an acute manic or mixed episode with or without psychotic features) (n=201), 1 fixed intramuscular olanzapine for injection dose of 10 mg was evaluated. Olanzapine for injection was statistically superior to placebo on the PANSS Excited Component at 2 hours post-injection. Examination of population subsets (age, race, and gender) did not reveal any differential responsiveness on the basis of these subgroupings.

STORAGE AND HANDLING:
16.2 Storage and Handling Store ZYPREXA tablets, ZYPREXA ZYDIS, and ZYPREXA IntraMuscular vials (before reconstitution) at controlled room temperature, 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [ see USP]. Reconstituted ZYPREXA IntraMuscular may be stored at controlled room temperature, 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [ see USP] for up to 1 hour if necessary. Discard any unused portion of reconstituted ZYPREXA IntraMuscular. The USP defines controlled room temperature as a temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25°C; and that allows for excursions between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F) that are experienced in pharmacies, hospitals, and warehouses. Protect ZYPREXA tablets and ZYPREXA ZYDIS from light and moisture. Protect ZYPREXA IntraMuscular from light, do not freeze.

SPL TEXT:
ZYPREXA Zydis OLANZAPINE GELATIN, UNSPECIFIED MANNITOL METHYLPARABEN SODIUM ASPARTAME OLANZAPINE OLANZAPINE 5