DRUG NAME: Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol
GENERIC NAME: NORGESTIMATE AND ETHINYL ESTRADIOL
MANUFACTURER: PD-Rx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ROUTE: 

DESCRIPTION:
11 DESCRIPTION Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP) is a combination oral contraceptive containing the progestational compound norgestimate, USP and the estrogenic compound ethinyl estradiol, USP. Each blue tablet contains 0.250 mg of the progestational compound norgestimate (18, 19-Dinor-17-pregn-4-en-20-yn-3-one,17-(acetyloxy)-13-ethyl-, oxime, (17α)-(+)-) and 0.035 mg of the estrogenic compound, ethinyl estradiol (19-nor-17α-pregna, 1,3,5(10)-trien-20-yne-3, 17-diol), and the inactive ingredients include anhydrous lactose, FD&C blue no. 2 aluminum lake, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, and pregelatinized corn starch. Each white tablet contains only inert ingredients as follows: anhydrous lactose, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, and microcrystalline cellulose. The structural formula is as follows: C 23 H 31 NO 3 M.W. 369.50 C 20 H 24 O 2 M.W. 296.40 2 3

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY:
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Oral Contraception COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Sprintec. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norgestimate (NGM) and EE are rapidly absorbed following oral administration. NGM is rapidly and completely metabolized by first pass (intestinal and/or hepatic) mechanisms to norelgestromin (NGMN) and norgestrel (NG), which are the major active metabolites of norgestimate. Peak serum concentrations of NGMN and EE are generally reached by 2 hours after administration of Sprintec. Accumulation following multiple dosing of the 250 mcg NGM / 35 mcg EE dose is approximately 2-fold for NGMN and EE compared with single dose administration. The pharmacokinetics of NGMN is dose-proportional following NGM doses of 180 mcg to 250 mcg. Steady-state concentration of EE is achieved by Day 7 of each dosing cycle. Steady-state concentrations of NGMN and NG are achieved by Day 21. Non-linear accumulation (approximately 8 fold) of NG is observed as a result of high-affinity binding to SHBG, which limits its biological activity (Table 3). Table 3: Summary of NGMN, NG and EE pharmacokinetic parameters. Mean (SD) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Sprintec During a Three Cycle Study Analyte Cycle Day C max t max (h) AUC 0-24h t 1/2 (h) NGMN 1 1 1.78 (0.397) 1.19 (0.250) 9.90 (3.25) 18.4 (5.91) 3 21 2.19 (0.655) 1.43 (0.680) 18.1 (5.53) 24.9 (9.04) NG 1 1 0.649 (0.49) 1.42 (0.69) 6.22 (2.46) 37.8 (14.0) 3 21 2.65 (1.11) 1.67 (1.32) 48.2 (20.5) 45.0 (20.4) EE 1 1 92.2 (24.5) 1.2 (0.26) 629 (138) 10.1 (1.90) 3 21 147 (41.5) 1.13 (0.23) 1210 (294) 15.0 (2.36) C m ax = peak serum concentration, t max = time to reach peak serum concentration, AUC 0 -24h = area under serum concentration vs time curve from 0 to 24 hours, t 1/2 = elimination half-life, NC = not calculated. NGMN and NG: C m ax = ng/mL, AUC 0-24h = h•ng/mL EE: C m ax = pg/mL, AUC 0-24h = h•pg/mL Food Effect The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of Sprintec has not been studied. Distribution NGMN and NG are highly bound (>97%) to serum proteins. NGMN is bound to albumin and not to SHBG, while NG is bound primarily to SHBG. EE is extensively bound (>97%) to serum albumin and induces an increase in the serum concentrations of SHBG. Metabolism NGM is extensively metabolized by first-pass mechanisms in the gastrointestinal tract and/or liver. NGM’s primary active metabolite is NGMN. Subsequent hepatic metabolism of NGMN occurs and metabolites include NG, which is also active, and various hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites. Although NGMN and its metabolites inhibit a variety of P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes, under the recommended dosing regimen, the in vivo concentrations of NGMN and its metabolites, even at the peak serum levels, are relatively low compared to the inhibitory constant (K i ). EE is also metabolized to various hydroxylated products and their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates. Excretion The metabolites of NGMN and EE are eliminated by renal and fecal pathways. Following administration of 14 C-norgestimate, 47% (45 to 49%) and 37% (16 to 49%) of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in the urine and feces, respectively. Unchanged NGM was not detected in the urine. In addition to 17-deacetyl norgestimate, a number of metabolites of NGM have been identified in human urine following administration of radiolabeled NGM. These include 18, 19-Dinor-17-pregn-4-en-20-yn-3-one,17-hydroxy-13-ethyl,(17α)-(-);18,19-Dinor-5β17-pregnan-20-yn,3α,17β-dihydroxy-13-ethyl,(17α), various hydroxylated metabolites and conjugates of these metabolites.

MECHANISM OF ACTION:
12.1 Mechanism of Action Oral Contraception COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation.

INDICATIONS AND USAGE:
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sprintec ® is a combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )].

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sprintec is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Coadministration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 )

BOXED WARNING:
WARNING: CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive (COC) use. This risk increases with age, particularly in women over 35 years of age, and with the number of cigarettes smoked. For this reason, COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. WARNING: CIGARETTE SMOKING and SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Sprintec is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke. (4) Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives (COC) use. (4)

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.1 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration Take one tablet by mouth at the same time each day with or without food. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Sprintec. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Sprintec Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Sprintec active tablets are blue (Day 1 to Day 21). Sprintec has white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one white inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec. Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one white inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to Sprintec from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Sprintec Start Sprintec: Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Implant On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting Sprintec after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Sprintec may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Sprintec is started immediately. If Sprintec is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Sprintec. Second-trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Sprintec, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting Sprintec after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Sprintec following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Sprintec is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , and 8.2 )]. 2.2 Recommendations Regarding Missed Doses Contraceptive failure may occur when active tablets are missed. Table 2 describes instructions for Sprintec dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Sprintec Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday, then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations if Vomiting or Diarrhea Occurs In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet.

ADVERSE REACTIONS:
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in labeling: Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Vascular events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] The most common adverse reactions reported during clinical trials (≥2%) were: Sprintec: headache/migraine, abdominal/gastrointestinal pain, vaginal infection, genital discharge, breast issues (including breast pain, discharge, and enlargement), mood disorders (including depression and mood altered), flatulence, nervousness, rash. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol was evaluated in 1,647 healthy women of child-bearing potential who participated in 3 clinical trials and received at least 1 dose of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol for contraception. Two trials were randomized active-controlled trials and 1 was an uncontrolled open-label trial. In all 3 trials, subjects were followed for up to 24 cycles. Common Adverse Reactions (≥ 2% of subjects) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2% of the 1,647 women were the following in order of decreasing incidence: headache/migraine (32.9%), abdominal/gastrointestinal pain (7.8%), vaginal infection (8.4%), genital discharge (6.8%), breast issues (including breast pain, discharge, and enlargement) (6.3%), mood disorders (including depression and mood altered) (5.0%), flatulence (3.2%), nervousness (2.9%), and rash (2.6%). Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Over the three trials, between 11 to 21% of subjects discontinued the trial due to an adverse reaction. The most common adverse reactions (≥1%) leading to discontinuation were: metrorrhagia (6.9%), nausea/vomiting (5.0%), headache (4.1%), mood disorders (including depression and mood altered) (2.4%), premenstrual syndrome (1.7%), hypertension (1.4%), breast pain (1.4%), nervousness (1.3%), amenorrhea (1.1%), dysmenorrhea (1.1%), weight increased (1.1%), and flatulence (1.1%). Serious Adverse Reactions : breast cancer (1 subject), mood disorders including depression, irritability, and mood swings (1 subject), myocardial infarction (1 subject), and venous thromboembolic events including pulmonary embolism (1 subject) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) (1 subject). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever-users (current or past use) of COCs and never-users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk, with effect estimates ranging from 0.90 - 1.12 (Figure 1). Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users (<6 months since last use) and never users of COCs (Figure 1). One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use. The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1.19 to 1.33 with current or recent use. Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration, with relative risks ranging from 1.03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1.4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use. Figure 1: Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptive Use RR = relative risk; OR = odds ratio; HR = hazard ratio. “ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Infections and Infestations : Urinary tract infection; Neoplasms Benign, Malignant and Unspecified (Incl. Cysts and Polyps) : Breast cancer, benign breast neoplasm, hepatic adenoma, focal nodular hyperplasia, breast cyst; Immune System Disorders : Anaphylactic reaction, hypersensitivity; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Dyslipidemia; Psychiatric Disorders : Anxiety, insomnia; Nervous System Disorders : Syncope, convulsion, paresthesia, dizziness; Eye Disorders : Visual impairment, dry eye, contact lens intolerance; Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Vertigo; Cardiac Disorders : Tachycardia, palpitations; Vascular Events : Deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, retinal vascular thrombosis, hot flush, venous thrombosis (including Budd Chiari Syndrome and hepatic vein thrombosis); Arterial Events : Arterial thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnea; Gastrointestinal Disorders : Pancreatitis, abdominal distension, diarrhea, constipation; Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hepatitis; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioedema, erythema nodosum, hirsutism, night sweats, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity reaction, urticaria, pruritus, acne; Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders : Muscle spasms, pain in extremity, myalgia, back pain; Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Ovarian cyst, suppressed lactation, vulvovaginal dryness; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Chest pain, asthenic conditions. 1

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Sprintec. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John’s wort. Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs, and to continue back-up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. Colesevelam : Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE. The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Coadministration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of coadministration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]) or with HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors (e.g., cobicistat and ritonavir) or inducers of CYP3A. 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid, temazepam and lamotrigine. Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control; therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary. Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid-binding globulin increases with use of COCs. 7.3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not coadminister Sprintec with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )].

USE IN PREGNANCY:
8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no use for contraception in pregnancy, therefore, Sprintec should be discontinued during pregnancy. Epidemiologic studies and meta-analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non-genital birth defects (including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects) following exposure to CHCs before conception or during early pregnancy. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent, respectively.

NURSING MOTHERS:
8.2 Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and/or metabolites are present in human milk. CHCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding females. This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well-established. When possible, advise the nursing female to use other forms of contraception until she discontinues breast-feeding. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for Sprintec and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from Sprintec or from the underlying maternal condition.

PEDIATRIC USE:
8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Sprintec tablets have been established in women of reproductive age. Efficacy is expected to be the same for post-pubertal adolescents under the age of 18 and for users 18 years and older. Use of this product before menarche is not indicated.

GERIATRIC USE:
8.5 Geriatric Use Sprintec has not been studied in postmenopausal women and are not indicated in this population.

OVERDOSAGE:
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdosage of oral contraceptives, including ingestion by children. Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea.

CLINICAL STUDIES:
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Contraception In three US clinical trials with norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol, 1,651 women aged 18 to 38 years were studied for up to 24 cycles, proving a total of 24,272 cycles of exposure. The racial demographic was about 73 to 86% Caucasian, 8 to 13% African-American, 6 to 14% Hispanic with the remainder Asian or Other (≤1%). There were no exclusions on the basis of weight; the weight range for women treated was 82 to 303 lbs, with a mean weight of about 135 lbs. The pregnancy rate was approximately 1 pregnancy per 100 women-years.

SPL TEXT:
Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Sprintec Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol ANHYDROUS LACTOSE FD&C BLUE NO. 2 INDIGOTINDISULFONATE SODIUM AMMONIUM SULFATE SODIUM CARBONATE SODIUM BICARBONATE ALUMINUM CHLORIDE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE STARCH, CORN NORGESTIMATE NORGESTIMATE ETHINYL ESTRADIOL ETHINYL ESTRADIOL b;987 Inert Inert ANHYDROUS LACTOSE HYPROMELLOSE 2208 (3 MPA.S) MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE b;143